PARLIAMENT
RESOLVED that Parliament approve, in accordance with section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, Cap. 228, the compulsory acquisition by the Crown of the parcels of land situate at Redman’s Village in the parish of Saint James, Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas, Warrens Terrace in the parish of St. James and Lodge Hill in the parish of Saint Michael in this Island, more particularly described in the Schedules hereto for the public purpose of improving the road infrastructure under the Warrens Traffic Safety Improvement Project.
APPROVED by the House of Assembly this
day of
, Two Thousand and fifteen.
Speaker
APPROVED by the Senate this
day of
, Two
Thousand and Fifteen.
President
tN
FIRST SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Keith Belle (Lot 228) situate at Redman's Village in the parish of Saint James in this [sland containing by admeasurement 5.4 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Joan Butler (Lot 229) on the Ronald Mapp Highway and on lands now or late of the said Keith Belle or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 15" day of July, 2014 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 18" day of July, 2014 as Plan No. 629/2014.
SECOND SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Joan Butler (Lot 229) situate at Redman’s Village in the parish of Saint James in this [sland containing by admeasurement 42.0 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Keith Belle (Lot 228) on lands now or late of the said Joan Butler and on lands now or late of Wesley Gibson (Lot 230) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 15" day of July, 2014 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 18" day of July, 2014 as Plan No. 629/2014.
uw
THIRD SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Rosaline R. Clarke situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this Island containing by admeasurement 327.7 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 67.9 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or formerly of the Barbados Government on lands now or late of the said Rosaline R. Clarke and on a Right of Way 3.66 metres wide or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21* day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
FOURTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Philip J. Corrigan and Joyce Bourne (Lot B3) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint James in this [sland containing by admeasureent 194.3 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 25.8 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Elliott Greene on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Sonia Bishop (Lot 4) and on lands now or late of the said Philip J. Corrigan and Joyce Bourne (inclusive of residual road reserve and residual drain reserve) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
FIFTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Sonia Bishop (Lot 4) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint James in this [sland containing by admeasurement 171.9 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 97.9 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Philip J. Corrigan and Joyce Bourne on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Juliet Hinds (Lot 5) and on lands now or late of the said Sonia Bishop or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21 day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
SIXTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Juliet Hinds (Lot 5) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint James in this Island containing by admeasurement 93.5 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 80.1 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Sonia Bishop on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Gerald Hector (Lot 8) and on lands now or late of the said Julict Hinds or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
UM
SEVENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Gerald Hector (Lot 8) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint James in this [sland containing by admeasurement 85.5 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 63.2 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Juliet Hinds on the Ronald Mapp Highway and on lands now or fate of the said Gerald Hector or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded. in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
EIGHTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Arnold Alleyne (Lot 1) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this [sland containing by admeasurement 77.7 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Errington Jackman (Lot 31) and on lands now or late of the said Armold Alleyne or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
NINTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Norris Williams and Lorna Williams (Lot 2) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this [sland containing by admeasurement 89.4 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of the said Norris Williams and Lorna Williams on lands now and formerly of the Barbados Government and on the Ronald Mapp Highway or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
TENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Errington Jackman (Lot 31) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this {sland containing by admeasurement 92.6 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Norma Carter (Lot 32) on lands now and late of the said Errington Jackman and on lands now or late of Arnold Alleyne (Lot t) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21* day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No, 1230/2012.
ELEVENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Norma Carter (Lot 32) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this [sland containing by admeasurement 112.6 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of Jean and Michael Stuart (Lot 33) and on lands now and fate of the satd Norma Carter and on tands now or late of Errington Jackman (Lot 31) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21" day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
TWELFTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Jean and Michael Stuart (Lot 33) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this Island containing by admeasurement 175 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 9.1 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on lands now or late of the said Jean and Michael Stuart on two sides (Lot 33A and 33 respectively) on lands now or late of Norma Carter (Lot 32) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21* day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
THIRTEENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT fand the property of Jean and Michael Stuart (Lot 33A) situate at Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas in this Island containing by admeasurement 149.3 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 103.0 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on the Ronald Mapp Highway on a Right of Way 3.66 metres wide and on other lands now or late of the said Jean and Michael Stuart on two sides (Lot 33A and 33 respectively) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 21* day of November, 2012 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 28" day of November, 2012 as Plan No. 1230/2012.
FOURTEENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Everson R. Elcock Holdings Ltd. (Manor Lodge Complex) situate at Lodge Hill in the parish of Saint Michael in this Island containing by admeasurement 657.0 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 273.3 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on a public road (Friendship Drive) on lands now or formerly of the said Everson R. Elcock Holdings Ltd. (Manor Lodge Complex) on Jands now or formerly of S. M. J. Properties (Barbados) Inc. and on another public road (Highway 2) or however elsc the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 15" day of July, 2014 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 18" day of July, 2014 as Plan No. 630/2014.
FIFTEENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Roka Investments Ltd. (Lot 1) situate at Lodge Hill in the parish of Saint Michael in this [sland containing by admeasurement 455.5 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 207.1 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or formerly of the Barbados Government on lands now or formerly of the said Roka Investments Ltd. on the public road (Friendship Drive) and on another public road (Highway 2) or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a Plan certified on the 15" day of July, 2014 by Garrick L. Jenkins, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and. Surveys Department on the 18" day of July, 2014 as Plan No. 630/2014.
ADDENDUM
On the 13" day of February, 2014, the Cabinet agreed to the compulsory acquisition by the Crown of the parcels of land situate at Redman's Village in the parish of Saint James, Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint Thomas, Warrens Terrace in the parish of Saint James and Lodge Hill in the parish of Saint Michael. respectively for the Warrens Traflic Safetv Improvement Project.
In accordance with the provisions of section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, Cap. 228, the approval of Parliament is now sought for the compulsory acquisition of the parcels of land described in the Schedules hereto in order that the public purpose set out in this Resolution may be effected and that the Crown may acquire an indefeasible title to the said parcels of land.
