PARLIAMENT
RESOLVED that Parliament in accordance with section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, Cap. 228 approve the compulsory acquisition by the Crown of the parcels of land situate at Spcightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island and more particularly described in the Schedules hereto for a public purpose, namely to facilitate the Salt Pond Drainage Improvement Phase II Project.
APPROVED by the House of Assembly this
day of
Two thousand and eighteen.
Speaker
APPROVED by the Senate this
day of
Two thousand and eighteen.
President
FIRST SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Mill Reef Company Limited situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 325.9 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 4.6 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or formerly of the said Mill Reef Company Limited on lands now or formerly of the Barbados Government on other lands now or formerly of the said Mill Reef Company Limited and ona road reserve part of the public road known as Speightstown Bypass Road leading to Fann Road in one direction and Church Street in the other direction or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
SECOND SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Sol Antillies & Guianas Limited situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 679.4 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on lands now or formerly of the Crown on lands now or formerly of the said So! Antillies and Guianas Limited and on a side waik part of a public road known as Speightstown Bypass Road leading to Farm Road in one direction and Church Street in the other direction or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
THIRD SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Edwin Rollock situate at Speizhtstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 34.5 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on other lands now or late of the said Edwin Rollock and on lands now or formerly of the Crown on two sides or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9 day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
FOURTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Kellman Walcott situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 618.8 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on other lands now or late of the said Kellman Walcott on lands now or formerly of Perfect Gems Properties Inc. on lands now or late of Sarah Descartes on lands now or late of Daphne White on other lands now or late of the said Kellman Walcott on lands now or formerly of the Crown and on lands now or late of Ina Kidney or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
FIFTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Sarah Descartes situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 380.9 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on lands now or formerly of Perfect Gem Properties Inc. on lands now or late of Hellena Husbands on other lands now or late of the said Sarah Descartes on lands now or late of Daphne White and on Jands now or late of Kellman Walcott or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9"*day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
SIXTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Perfect Gem Properties Inc. situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 1033.2 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 46.4 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of Hellena Husbands on Jands now or late of Sarah Descartes on lands now or late of Kellman Walcott on other lands now or formerly of the said Perfect Gems Properties Inc. and on the public road which leads to Farm Road in one direction and to Church Street in the other direction or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
SEVENTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Hellena Husbands situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admcasurement 278.1 square metres or thereabouts (inclusive of 35.4 square metres in road reserve) Abutting and Bounding on other lands now or late of the said Hellena Husbands on lands now or late of Sarah Descartes on lands now or formerly of Perfect Gem Propertics Inc. and on the public road which leads to Farm Road in one direction and to Church Street in the other direction or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
EIGHTH SCHEDULE
ALL THAT land the property of Byrd Walker situate at Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island containing by admeasurement 334.7 square metres or thereabouts Abutting and Bounding on lands now or late of T. S. Chandler on two sides ona road and on the public road which leads to Farm Road in one direction and to Church Street in the other direction or however else the same may abut and bound as shown and delineated on a plan certified on the 9" day of August, 2018 by Anderson R. Alleyne, Land Surveyor and recorded in the Lands and Surveys Department on the 9"" day of August, 2018 as Plan No. 970/2018.
ADDENDUM
On the 3" day of August, 2017 the Cabinet agreed to the acquisition of an estimated 3,671 square metres (39,515 square feet) of land situate at Round-the-Town, Speightstown in the parish of Saint Peter in this Island to facilitate the Salt Pond Drainage Improvement Phase II Project.
In accordance with the provisions of section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, Cap. 228, the approval of Parliament is now sought for the compulsory acquisition of the parcels of land described in the eight Schedules hereto in order that the public purpose set out in the Resolution may be effected and that the Crown may acquire an indefeasible title to the said parcels of land.
mas of uo ata Bie) TT a permed far ray oh Meng, Cerne ‘rc Cecetapemont ewes ek 8
