2019-06-25

OBJECTS AND REASONS

This  Bill  would  amend  certain  enactments  relating  to  the  Public  Service
(No.  2)  Act,  2019

consequent  upon
(Act 2019-16) and would provide for related matters.

the  Constitution

(Amendment)

2

Arrangement of Sections

1.

2.

Short title

Amendment of enactments set out in the Schedule

SCHEDULE

BARBADOS

A Bill entitled

An Act to amend certain enactments relating to the public service and to

provide for related matters.

ENACTED by the Parliament of Barbados as follows:

4

Short title

1.
Provisions) Act, 2019.

This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Public  Service  (Miscellaneous

Amendment of enactments set out in the Schedule

2.
the respect set out opposite thereto in column 2.

The enactments set out in column 1 of the Schedule are amended in

5

 L.R.O. 1998SCHEDULE(Section 2)CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTSColumn 1Enactments1.Pensions Act, Cap. 25Column 2AmendmentsIn section 2(1),(a)delete paragraphs (b) and (c) and substitutethe following:"(b) in the case of an ofﬁ cer appointedto serve as a teacher, the Teaching Service Commission;(c)in the case of an ofﬁ cer appointedto serve as a(i)member of the PoliceForce, the Prison Serviceor the Fire Service; or(ii)Forensic Scientist, CustomsOfficer, Immigration Officeror Security Guard,the Protective Services Commission;";(b)insert immediately after paragraph (c) thefollowing:"(d) in any other case, the Administrative,General and Professional Service Commission.".6

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments1.Pensions Act, Cap. 25- (Concl'd)2.Public Service Act,Cap. 29Column 2AmendmentsIn section 2A, delete the words "section 2 of the Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "section 13(1) of the Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 8(9)(b), delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In the First Schedule delete the words "Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General".In section 2,(a)delete paragraph (b) of the definition of"Public Service" or "Service" and substitutethe following:"(b) the office of a member of theJudicial and Legal Service  Commission, Teaching Service  Commission, Administrative, General and Professional ServiceCommission or the Protective Services Commission;";(b)delete paragraphs (b) and (c) of the deﬁ nitionof "Service Commission" or "Commission"and substitute the following:"(b) Administrative, General andProfessional Service Commissionestablished by section 90(1) of theConstitution;7

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Public Service Act, Cap. 29 - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(c) Protective Services Commission established by section 91(1) of the Constitution;" or;(c) insert immediately after paragraph (c) the following:   "(d) Teaching Service Commission established by section 93A of the Constitution,".Insert immediately after section 6 the following:"Functions of the Director General 6A. There shall be a Director General, Human Resources, who shall perform the following functions:(a) provide human resource management advice to (i)  the Service Commissions established under the Constitution;(ii)  Permanent Secretaries and  Heads of Departments;8

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Public Service Act, Cap. 29 - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(b) assist the Minister in the formulation and development of the human resource management policy for the public service;(c) perform the functions relating to the(i) recruitment, selection, placement and transfer of personnel;(ii) appointment, promotion, discipline and retirement of personnel; and(iii) training and development; (d) ensure that each Ministry or Department implements the appropriate human resource systems to adequately manage the Ministry or Department;(e) carry out human resource management audits throughout the  public service to ensure that the Ministry or Department complies with the human resource  management and development policy; and(f) perform such other functions as may be prescribed.9

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Public Service Act, Cap. 29 - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments"Validation 6B. Where, before the commencement of this section, it was provided by any enactment that any act should be done or any function should be performed by the Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer and that act was purported to have been done or that duty was purported to have been performed by (a) the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of the Civil Service;(b) the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of the Public Service;(c) the Director, People Resourcing and Compliance; or(d) the Director General, Human  Resources,that act shall be deemed to have been as lawfully and validly done and that function shall be deemed to have been as lawfully and validly performed as if the act had been done or the function had been performed by the Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer.".In section 19,(a) delete the figure "(1)" appearing at the beginning of the section; and(b) delete paragraph (c) and substitute the following:"(c) to which the Constitution (Delegation of Functions- Administrative, General and Professional and Protective Services Commission) (Miscellaneous Provisions) Order, 2019 (S.I. 2019-  ) refers, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of that Order.".10

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Public Service Act, Cap. 29 - (Cont'd)Column 2AmendmentsIn the First Schedule, in the paragraph appearing under sub-heading General,(a) delete the words "Public Service Commission" and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Service  Commission";(b) insert immediately after the word "Judicial and Legal Service Commission" the words "Teaching Service Commission";(c) delete the words "Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission".In the Second Schedule,(a) in the Code of Conduct and Ethics delete the words "Civil Service" appearing in  paragraph 17(2) and substitute the words "Public Service";(b) delete the words "Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer" in paragraph 26 and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In the Third Schedule, delete the words "Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer" wherever they appear and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".11

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Public Service Act, Cap. 29 - (Concl'd)3. Public Employees Pensions Act, Cap. 30Column 2AmendmentsIn paragraph 1(c) of the Fourth Schedule,(a) delete the words "Civil Service" where they appear and substitute the words "Public Service"; and(b) delete the words "Chief Personnel Ofﬁ cer" where they appear and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In the Fifth Schedule,(a) delete the words "Civil Service" appearing in paragraph 1(b) and substitute the words "Public Service"; and(b) delete paragraph 1(d).In section 2,(a) in the definition of "public employee" or "employee", delete the words "section (2) of the Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "section 13(1) of the Public Service Act, Cap. 29";(b) in paragraph (c) of the deﬁ nition of "public service", delete the word "Establishments" and substitute the words "the Public Service".In section 3(2) and (5) delete the word "Establishments" andsubstitute the words "the Public Service".12

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Service Commissions Act,  Cap. 34Column 2AmendmentsIn the long title, by deleting the words "the Public ServiceCommission and the Police Service Commission" andsubstituting the words "the Administrative, General andProfessional Service Commission and the ProtectiveServices Commission".In section 2,(a) in the deﬁ nition of "Chairman", delete the words "the Chairman of the Public Service Commission or the Chairman of the Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "the Chairman of the Administrative, General and Professional Service Commission or the Chairman of the Protective Services Commission";(b) in the deﬁ nition of "Commission" delete the words "the Public Service Commission or the Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "the Administrative, General and Professional Service Commission or the Protective Services Commission".In the deﬁ nition of "Governor-General's personal staff", delete the words "section 2 of the Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "section 13(1) of the PublicService Act, Cap. 29".In section 3(3), delete the words "and the Public ServiceCommission" and substitute the words "and theAdministrative, General and Professional ServiceCommission.".13

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Service Commissions Act,  Cap. 34 - (Concl'd)Column 2AmendmentsIn section 4, delete the word "Establishments" and substitutethe words "the Public Service".In section 7,(a) delete the words "Public Service Commission in paragraph (b) and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Service Commission"; and(b) delete the words "Public Service Commission" in paragraph (d) and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Service Commission".In section 8,(a) delete the words "Police Service Commission" in paragraph (c) and substitute the words "Protective Service Commission";(b) delete the words "Public Service Commission" in paragraph (c)(iv) and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Services Commission"; and(c) delete the words "Police Service Commission" in paragraph (c)(v) and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission".14

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Service Commissions Act,  Cap. 34 - (Concl'd)5. Fire Service Act, Cap. 1636. Police Act, Cap. 1677. Police Complaints Authority, Cap. 167AColumn 2AmendmentsIn section 11(1)(a) delete the words "Public Service Commission" in sub-paragraph (iii) and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Service Commission"; and(b) delete the words "Police Service Commission" in sub-paragraph (iv) and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission".In the Schedule, in paragraphs "A" and "B" delete the words "Public Service Commission/Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "Administrative,General and Professional Service Commission/Protective Services Commission".In section 4, delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 6, delete the words section 2 of the "CivilEstablishment Act" and substitute the words "section 13(1) of the Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 32A(1)(f)(v), delete the words "Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission".In section 80(1), delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 81, delete the words "Police Service Commission" and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission".In section 6 delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" insubsection (1) and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".15

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments8. Prisons Act, Cap. 1689. Immigration Act, Cap. 190Column 2AmendmentsIn section 2, delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 4, delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" in subsection (1) and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 12, delete the words "Civil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "Public Service Act, Cap. 29".In section 2 delete the deﬁ nition of "immigration ofﬁ cer"and substitute the following:"immigration ofﬁ cer" means the Chief Immigration Ofﬁ cer, the Deputy Chief Immigration Ofﬁ cer, the Assistant Chief Immigration Ofﬁ cer and Immigration Ofﬁ cer appointed under section 13(1) of the Public Service Act, Cap. 29.".In section 25, delete subsections (1), (2) and (3) andsubstitute the following: "(1) The Chief Immigration Officer andimmigration officers shall be appointed inaccordance with section 13(1) of the PublicService Act, Cap. 29. (2) The number of immigration officers that may be appointed under subsection (1) and the conditions of service of such ofﬁ cers shallbe such as may be determined by the Ministerresponsible for the Public Service.16

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments9. Immigration Act, Cap. 190 - (Concl'd)10. Pensions Regulations, 1947 (S.I. 1947 No. 20)11. Pensions Barbados (Overseas Officers Retirement and  Compensation) Regulations, 1968 (S.I. 1968/27)12. Police Band (Apprentices) Regulations, 1979 (S.I. 1979 No. 38)Column 2Amendments (3) The Chief Immigration Officer shall be responsible for the general management and administration of the Immigration Department,and all other immigration ofﬁ cers shall performsuch functions as are assigned to them by theChief Immigration Ofﬁ cer.".In regulation 19(5) delete the word "Establishments"and substitute the words "the Public Service".In regulation 27A(5), delete the words "section 2 of theCivil Establishment Act" and substitute the words "section13 of the Public Service Act".In regulation 2(1)(a) delete the words "Police Service  Commission" and substitute the words "Protective Services Commission";(b) delete the words "Public Service  Commission" appearing in paragraph (c) and substitute the words "Administrative, General and Professional Service  Commission.".In paragraph 2(m) of the Schedule, delete the words "PoliceService Commission" and substitute the words, "ProtectiveServices Commission".In paragraph 3(e) of the Schedule, delete the words "CivilEstablishment (Part-time Ofﬁ cers) Order, 1980" andsubstitute the words "Public Service (Part-time Ofﬁ cers)Order, 2018 (S.I. 2018 No. 78)."17

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments13. Service Commissions (Police Service) Regulations, 1964 (S.I. 1964 No. 69)14. Police (Promotion) Regulations, 1998, (S.I. 1998 No. 120)Column 2AmendmentsDelete regulation 3 and substitute the following:"Duties of Director General 3. The Director General, Human Resources shall(a) submit matters for the decision of the Commission;(b) designate an ofﬁ cer not below the rank of Deputy Director to attend all meetings of the Commission;(c) attend meetings of the Commission when required to do so by the Commission;(d) give effect to the decisions of the Commission;(e) ensure that all documents and papers relating to any matter being or to be considered by the Commission are made available to the Commission.".In regulation 2, in the deﬁ nition of "Commission", deletethe words "Police Service Commission" and substitutethe words "Protective Services Commission".In regulation 7(2), delete the words "Police ServiceCommission" and substitute the words "Protective ServicesCommission".18

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments14. Police (Promotion) Regulations, 1998, (S.I. 1998 No. 120) - (Concl'd)15. Police (Discipline) Regulations, 1998  (S.I. 1998 No. 122)16. Service Commissions (Public Service) Regulations, 1978 (S.I. 1978 No. 183)Column 2AmendmentsIn regulation 13, delete the words "Police ServiceCommission" and substitute the words "Protective ServicesCommission".In regulation 2, in the deﬁ nition of "Commission"delete the words "Police Service Commission" and substitutethe words "Protective Services Commission".In regulation 19(2)(b) delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In regulation 2, in the deﬁ nition of "misconduct", delete the word "Establishments" and substitute the words "the Public Service".Delete regulation 9 and substitute the following:"Duties of Director General 9. It shall be the duty of the Director General, Human Resources to(a) submit, whether in writing or orally, matters for the decision of the Commission;(b) designate an ofﬁ cer not below the rank of Deputy Director to attend all meetings of the Commission;19

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments16. Service Commissions (Public Service) Regulations, 1978 (S.I. 1978 No. 183) - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(c) attend meetings of the Commission when required so to do by the Commission;(d) carry out the decisions of the Commission; and(e) ensure that all documents and papers relating to any matter being or to be considered by the Commission are made available to the Commission.".In regulation 16(1), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In regulation 17(2), delete the  words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In regulation 18(1), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In regulation 19(1), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".In  regulation 24(1) and (2), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General, Human Resources".20

 L.R.O. 1998CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS - (Concl'd)Schedule - (Concl'd)Column 1Enactments16. Service Commissions (Public Service) Regulations, 1978 (S.I. 1978 No. 183) - (Concl'd)17. Public Service (Leave  Passages) Order, 1966  (S.I. 1966/17)Column 2AmendmentsIn regulation 27(2), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General,Human Resources".In regulation 32(2), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer, the Chief Establishments Ofﬁ cer" and substitutethe words "Director General, Human Resources".In regulation 33(3)(b), delete the words "Chief PersonnelOfﬁ cer" and substitute the words "Director General".Delete the words(a) "Chief Personnel Officer" appearing in paragraph 5(2) and 11(2) and substitute the words "Director General, Human  Resources";(b) "Schedule B to the Civil Establishment Act" whenever they appear and substitute the words "Second Schedule to the Public Service (General) Order, 2018 (S.I. 2018 No. 75)".