2022-04-05

OBJECTS AND REASONS

This  Bill  would  establish  a  new  fee  structure  for  persons  regulated  by  the
Financial  Services  Commission,  validate  the  charging  and  collection  by  the
Commission of certain fees under the new fee structure and provide for related
matters.

2

Arrangement of Sections

1.

2.

3.

4.

Short title

Consequential amendments

Repeals

Validation

FIRST SCHEDULE

CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

SECOND SCHEDULE

REPEALS

THIRD SCHEDULE

FEES

BARBADOS

A Bill entitled

An Act to establish a new fee structure for persons regulated by the Financial
Services  Commission,  to  validate  the  charging  and  collection  by  the
Commission  of  certain  fees  under  the  new  fee  structure  and  to  provide  for
related matters.

ENACTED by the Parliament of Barbados as follows:

4

Short title

1.
(Miscellaneous Provisions and Validation) Act, 2022.

This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Financial  Services  Commission

Consequential amendments

2.
in the manner set out opposite thereto in Column 2.

The enactments set out in Column 1 of the First Schedule are amended

Repeals

3.

The enactments set out in the Second Schedule are repealed.

Validation

4.
the period

Fees charged and collected by the Financial Services Commission for

(a)

(b)

(c)

1st April, 2019 to 31st December, 2019 in accordance with Part I of
the Third Schedule;

1st January, 2020 to 31st December, 2020 in accordance with Part II
of the Third Schedule; and

1st  January,  2021  to  the  day  immediately  before  the  date  of
commencement of the Financial Services Commission (Fees) Order,
2022  (S.  I.  2022  No.  )  in  accordance  with  the  Financial  Services
Commission (Fees) Order, 2022,

shall be deemed to have been lawfully and validly charged and collected.

5

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosFIRST SCHEDULE(Section 2)CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTSColumn 2Amendments1. In section 2, (a) in subsection (1)(i) the deﬁ nition of "actuary"(A) in paragraph (b)(ii), delete the word "or"; and(B) delete paragraph (c) and substitute the following:  "(c) in the case of a person who works for an insurer which carries on insurance business of insuring risks located outside Barbados,and in respect of whichpremiums originate outsideBarbados, is a fellow of aninternationally recognisedsociety or institute of actuaries;"; (ii) delete the deﬁ nition of  "Commission" appearing after the deﬁ nition of "sub-agent"; Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310 6

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosColumn 2Amendments(iii) delete the deﬁ nitions of "gross revenues from insurance premiums" and "international insurance business"; and  (iv) in the deﬁ nition of  "prescribed securities" delete the words "by the Minister"; and(b) insert after subsection (2), the following: "(3) In this Act(a) "registered", in relation to an entity, includes a licensed entity;(b) "certificate of registration" includes a licence issued under thisAct; and(c) "registration" includes the licensing of an entity or a licence issued to an entity under this Act, as the case may be. (4) Where there is a conﬂ ict betweenthis Act and the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21), the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21) shall apply.".2. In section 3(1), delete paragraph (i). Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)7

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments3. Delete section 4. 4. In section 9,(a) delete subsection (1) and substitute the following: "(1) Subject to subsection (4), nocompany may be registered to carryon in Barbados(a) long-term insurance businessunless it has a minimum paid-upshare capital of not less than $3 000 000;(b) general insurance business unless it has a minimum paid-up share capital of not less than $3 000 000;(c) both long-term and general insurance business unless it has aminimum paid-up share capital of not less than $5 000 000;(d) motor vehicle insurance businessonly, unless it has a minimum paid-up share capital of not less than $1 000 000;(e) industrial life insurance businessunless it has a minimum paid-up share capital of not less than $1 000 000; orColumn 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) 8

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(f) insurance business where the risks are located outside Barbados, and in respect of which premiums originate outside Barbados unless it has a minimum paid-up share capital of not less than $250 000 or such other amount as the Commission determines,or an equivalent sum in any other currencyapproved by the Commission, with thecapital to be fully paid-up in cash.";(b) in subsection (2A), insert after  the word "shall" the word "not"; and(c) insert after subsection (5), the following: "(5A) Subsection (5) shall apply only toan insurer which carries on insurance business of insuring risks located within Barbados and in respect of which premiumsoriginate within Barbados.". 5. Delete section 10. 6. In section 12(1)(b), delete the words "or the Fourth Schedule, as the case may be".  7. Delete sections 15A and 15B.Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) 9

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments8. In section 23(5), delete the word "ensuring" and substitute the word "insuring". 9. Delete section 38(1) and substitute the following: "(1) Subject to this  Act, where an insurance company carries on insurancebusiness of one or more of the speciﬁ edclasses, the receipts and expenditure ofeach class of insurance business shall be entered in a separate account and shall  becarried to, and form, a separate insurancefund with an appropriate name.".10. In section 49A, delete the word "licensees" and substitutethe words "and Class 2 licensees which carry on insurance business of insuring risks located outside Barbados and in respect of which premiums originate outside Barbados".11. In section 70A, delete the word "Minister" wherever itappears and substitute the word "Commission".12. In section 70H,(a) in subsections (1) and (3), delete the word "Minister"wherever it appears and substitute the word  "Commission";Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) 10

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) Column 2Amendments(b) delete  subsections (4) and (5) and substitute thefollowing: "(4) Where the Commission is satisﬁ edthat a company is registrable under this section,the Commission shall, upon payment ofthe prescribed fee, issue to the company acertiﬁ cate of registration containing(a) the name and business address of the company; and(b) the date of its regisration as aholding company.";(c) in subsection (6), delete the  word "he" and  substitutethe words "the  Commission";(d) in subsection (7), delete the word "Minister" andthe word "Commission"; and(e) delete subsection (8) and substitute the following: "(8) The Minister may suspend or  revoke a certiﬁ cate of registration where a holding company(a) fails to comply with a conditionspecified in the certificate; or11

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) Column 2Amendments(b) is in breach of any duty or obligationimposed upon it by or under this Part,and sections 70I and 70J apply, with such adaptations as may be necessary, to thecertificate of registration as they applyto a licence under this Part.".13. In section 70I,(a) in subsections (1), (2) and (5), delete the word"Minister" and substitute the word "Commission"; and(b) delete subsections (3) and (4) and substitute thefollowing: "(3) Where the licensee fails to complywith the Commission's directions, theCommission may suspend the licence for aperiod not exceeding 90 days; and itsdecision thereon is ﬁ nal. (4) Where the Commission intends to revoke or suspend a licence under thissection, the Commission shall give thelicensee notice of its intention to do so and a reasonable opportunity to show cause why the licence should not be revoked or suspended, as the case may be.".12

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Cont'd) Column 2Amendments14. In section 70J,(a) delete the word "Minister" wherever it appears and substitute the word "Commission"; and(b) in subsection (1), delete the words "section 12" and substitute the words "section 70I".15. Delete section 146G(ii).16. In section 152(3), delete the words ", but the Minister"  and substitute the word "and".17. In section 155, (a) delete the word "Minister" wherever it appears and   substitute the word "Commission"; (b) in subsection (3), delete the word "he" and   substitute the words "the Commission"; and (c) in subsection (5), delete the word "he" and   substitute the words "the Commission". 18. In section 182,(a) in subsection (1), delete the words "Minister may" and substitute the words "Commission may, with the   approval of the Minister,"; and (b) in subsection (3), delete the word "Minister" and   substitute the word "Commission". 13

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments1. Insurance Act, Cap. 310- (Concl'd) 2. Securities Act, Cap. 318A Column 2Amendments19. In section 183,  (a) delete the words "Minister may" and substitute the   words "the Commission may, with the approval  of the Minister,"; and (b) delete the word "he" wherever it appears and   substitute the words "the Commission". 20. Delete section 183A.1. In the long title, delete paragraph (a) and renumberparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) as paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).2. In section 2(1),(a) delete the deﬁ nition of "Commission" and  substitutethe following:" "Commission" means the Financial Services Commission established by section 3 of the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21);"; and(b) in the deﬁ nition of "regulation" delete the words"by the Minister".14

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Securities Act, Cap. 318A - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments3. Delete the heading of Part I and substitute the following:"PART IFINANCIAL SERVICES COMMISSION".4. Delete section 3 and substitute the following:"Financial Services Commission Act, 2010to apply 3. Where there is a conﬂ ict betweenthis Act and the Financial ServicesCommission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21), theFinancial Services Commission Act, 2010(Act 2010-21) shall apply.".5. Delete sections 7, 10 and 12.6. Delete the subheading "Staﬀ ".7. Delete sections 14, 15, 16 and 17.8. Delete the subheading "Finances of Commission" andsections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22.9. In section 46,(a) delete subsections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9); and15

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments2. Securities Act, Cap. 318A - (Concl'd)Column 2Amendments(b) renumber subsection (10) as subsection (4).10. In section 126,(a) in subsection (1),(i) delete the words "The Minister may, on therecommendation of the Commission" andsubstitute the words "The Commission may,with the approval of the Minister"; and(ii) delete paragraph (j);(b) delete subsections (2) and (3) and substitute the following: "(2) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations governing take-overs in respect of public companies."; and(c) delete subsection (7).11.  In section 127(1)(a), insert after the word "Minister", the words "for approval".12.  Delete section 127A.13. Delete the Schedule.16

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments3. Mutual Funds Act,  Cap. 320B Column 2Amendments1. In section 2(1),(a) insert in alphabetical order, the following deﬁ nition:" "Commission"  means the Financial ServicesCommission established  by section 3 of  theFinancial Services  Commission   Act, 2010(Act 2010-21);"; and(b) delete the deﬁ nition of "Securities Commission".2. Insert after section 2, the following:"Financial Services Commission Act, 2010to apply 2A. Where there is a conﬂ ict betweenthis Act and the Financial Services  Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21), the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21) shall apply.".3. Delete section 12 and substitute the following: "Annual fee 12. A mutual fund shall pay its annualfee by the prescribed date each year.".17

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments3. Mutual Funds Act,  Cap. 320B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments4. Delete section 27(2), (3) and (4) and substitute the following: "(2)  A mutual fund administrator shall,by the prescribed date each year, pay(a) its annual fee; and(b) the annual fee of any mutual fund forwhich it provides the principal oﬃ  ce.".5. In the heading immediately after section 38, delete the word "SECURITIES" and substitute the words "FINANCIAL SERVICES". 6.  In section 44(2),(a) in paragraph (a), delete subparagraph (i) and  substitute the following: "(i) to give the Commission notice that it has  started to provide the principal oﬃ  ce of a   mutual fund in accordance with subsection   (1) of section 27 or to pay the prescribed  annual fees in accordance with subsection  (2) of section 27;"; and(b) in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), delete the words "Securities" wherever it appears.18

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments3. Mutual Funds Act,  Cap. 320B - (Concl'd)Column 2Amendments7. Delete section 56 and substitute the following: "Regulations 56. The Commission may, with theapproval of the Minister, make regulationsgenerally for giving eﬀ ect  to this Act and inparticular for(a) the operation of mutual funds;(b) the compliance requirements ofexempt mutual funds;(c) the role of trustees, custodians andmutual fund administrators inrelation to mutual funds;(d) the type and content of advertisementpublished by mutual funds;(e) the ﬁ ling of document; and   (f) prescribing any other matter that isrequired to be prescribed under this Act.".8. Throughout the Act, delete the words "Securities Commission" wherever they appear and substitute theword "Commission".19

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350BColumn 2Amendments1. In section 2(1), (a) insert in alphabetical order, the following deﬁ nitions:" "Barbados Revenue Authority" means the body established by section 3 of the BarbadosRevenue Authority Act, 2014 (Act 2014-1);"Commission" means the Financial ServicesCommission established by section 3 of theFinancial Services Commission Act, 2010(Act 2010-21);"; and(b) delete the deﬁ nitions of  "prescribed" and "Supervisor".2. Insert after section 3, the following:"Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 to apply 3A. Where there is a conﬂ ict betweenthis Act and the Financial ServicesCommission Act, 2010  (Act 2010-21) the Financial Services Commission Act,2010 (Act 2010-21) shall apply.".20

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments3. Delete sections 5(3)(a) and substitute the following:"(a) the prescribed fee;".4. In section 8(1), delete the words "The Supervisor shall notregister a pension plan unless he" and substitute the words"The Commission shall not register a pension plan unlessthe Commission".5. Delete section 10 and substitute the following:"Certiﬁ cate of registration 10.  Where the Commission is satisfied that a pension plan meets the requirements for registration under this Act,the Commission shall register the planand issue to the person responsible for theadministration of the plan a certiﬁ cate of registration in the prescribed form.".6.  In section 15(2), delete the words "Commissioner of InlandRevenue" wherever they appear and substitute the words"Barbados Revenue Authority".21

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments7.  In section 26,(a) in subsection (1), delete the words "Supervisor, wherehe" and substitute the words "Commission, where the Commission"; and(b) in subsection (2), delete the word "Supervisor" andsubstitute the word "Commission".8.  Delete section 62(2) and (3) and substitute the following: "(2) Where a pension plan that is to be wound-up in whole or in part does nothave an administrator or the administratorfails to act, the Commission may appoint a person to carry out the winding-up and that person shall have the powers, functions and duties of an administrator. (3) The Commission may terminatethe appointment of an administrator appointed by the Commission where theCommission considers it reasonable to do so.".22

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments9. In section 69(6), delete the words "the Supervisor may give his" and substitute the words "the Commission may give its".10. In section 74(4)(a), delete the word "Supervisor’s"  and substitute the word "Commission’s".11. In the heading immediately after section 76, delete the words "SUPERVISOR OF PENSIONS" and substitute the words"GENERAL FUNCTIONS OF COMMISSION".12. Delete sections 77 and 78.13. In section 79(a) delete the word "Supervisor" and substitute the word  "Commission"; and(b) in paragraph (a), delete the word "him" and substitute  the words "the Commission".14. In section 80(1), (a) delete the word "Supervisor" and substitute the word "Commission"; and23

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(b)  in paragraph (b), delete the word "him" and substitute  the words "the Commission".15. In section 82,  (a) delete the word "Supervisor" wherever it appears and substitute the word "Commission"; and(b) in subsection (3), delete the word "Supervisor’s" and  substitute the word "Commission’s".16. In section 84,(a) delete the word "Supervisor" wherever it appears and substitute the word "Commission"; (b) delete subsection (1)(a) and substitute the following:"(a) require the administrator or trusteesof a pension fund to (i) produce for inspection anybooks, accounts, documents or statistics relating to thepension plan or pension fund;and24

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(ii) allow the Commission orthe inspector to take extracts from, or make copies of, suchbooks, accounts, documents or statistics as is consideredﬁ t;"; and(c) delete subsection (2) and substitute the following: "(2)  A person speciﬁ ed in paragraph(b) of subsection (1) shall upon request(a) produce to the Commission or the inspector, any books, accounts,documents or statistics relatingrelating to the pension plan orpension fund and available to theperson; and(b) give to the Commission or theinspector, any information in hishis possession relating to thepension plan or pension fund.".25

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments4. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B - (Concl'd)5.  Co-operative Societies  Act, Cap. 378AColumn 2Amendments17. In section 87,(a) in paragraph (a), delete the word "him" and substitute the words "the Commission"; and(b) in paragraph (b), delete the word "he" and substitutethe words "the Commission".18. In section 94, delete the word "Minister" and substitutethe words "the Commission may, with the approval of theMinister,".19. Throughout the Act, delete the word "Supervisor" whereverit appears and substitute the word "Commission".1. Insert after section 3(2), the following: "(3) Where, in so far as this Act relates to credit unions, there is a conflict between this Act and the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21), the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21) shall apply.".26

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments5.  Co-operative Societies  Act, Cap. 378A - (Concl'd)6. Financial Services  Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21)Column 2Amendments2. In section 260, delete the words "Supervisor of Insurance"wherever they appear and substitute the words "FinancialServices Commission".1. In section 20(a) in subsection (1)(c), delete subparagraph (ii) and substitute the following:"(ii) after consultation with the Minister, (A) appoint a person who, in the opinion of the Commission,has had training and experiencein the business of the ﬁ nancialinstitution concerned to advisethe ﬁ nancial institution on the action to be taken to remedy the situation; or(B) suspend the registration or licence of the financial institution for a period not exceeding 3 months."; and(b) in subsection (2), delete the words "(1)(b)(ii)" and substitute the words "(1)(c)(ii)".27

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments6. Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 (Act 2010-21) - (Concl'd)Column 2Amendments2. Insert after section 25(1), the following:  "(1A)  The Commission may, where theannual fee payable by a ﬁ nancial institution remains unpaid for more than(a) 30 days after the time for payment,  suspend the registration or licence of the ﬁ nancial institution; and(b) 90 days after the time for payment, cancel the registration or revoke the  licence of the ﬁ nancial institution,  but the Commission shall not do so unless it ﬁ rst gives notice in writing to the ﬁ nancial institution.".3. Insert after section 44(2), the following: "(2A)  The Commission  may, in extenuating circumstances waive the paymentof any late fee payable to the Commission.".28

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments7. Insurance (Forms and Fees) Regulations, 1998, (S. I. 1998 No. 76)8.  Securities Regulations, 2002 (S. I. 2002 No. 119)Column 2Amendments1.  In regulation 1, delete the words "and Fees". 2. In regulation 2, delete the word "First".3.  Delete regulations 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.4.  Delete the Second Schedule and rename the First Scheduleas the Schedule. 1. Delete regulation 2.2.  Delete regulation 4(1)(b) and substitute the following:"(b) the Chief Executive Oﬃ  cer; and".3. Delete the First Schedule and (a) renumber the Second and Third Schedules as theFirst and Second Schedules;(b) in regulations 3, 9, 13 and 53, delete the words "Second Schedule" wherever they appear and substitute thewords "First Schedule"; and(c) in regulation 60, delete the words "Third Schedule"and substitute the words "Second Schedule".29

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments8.  Securities Regulations, 2002 (S. I. 2002 No. 119) - (Concl'd)9.  Mutual Funds Regulations,  2002 (S. I. 2002 of 143)10. Co-operative Societies Regulations, 2008  (S. I. 2008 No. 4)Column 2Amendments4.  Throughout the Regulations, delete the words "Securities  Commission" wherever they appear and substitute the words "Financial Services Commission".Throughout the Regulations, delete the words "Securities Commission" wherever they appear and substitute the word "Commission".1.  Delete regulation 4 and substitute the following:"Fees  4. (1) The fees set out in the Second Schedule are payable  in respect  of the matters therein. (2) Paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to   credit unions.". 2. In the Second Schedule(a) delete item 2 and substitute the following:  "2. For a certificate of registration for a registered society other than a Junior Co-operative Society … … … … 200.00";30

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments10. Co-operative Societies Regulations, 2008  (S. I. 2008 No. 4) -  (Concl'd)11. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Regulations, 2011 (S. I. 2011 No. 11)Column 2Amendments(b) delete item 6 and substitute the following:"6. For restoring name to register ... ... 125.00";(c) delete item 7(b) and substitute the following:"(b) for each day after the due date, a late ﬁ ling  fee of … ... ... 5.00 (to a maximum of  200.00)"; and(d) in the Note immediately after item 17, delete the words, ", other than a credit union".1. In regulation 3, (a) delete paragraph (2)(c) and substitute the following:"(c) prescribed fee."; and(b) in paragraph (3), delete the word "he" and substitutethe words "the Commission".2. Delete regulation 5(3) and (4) and substitute the following: "(3) The Commission shall register the amendment to the pension plan where31

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments11. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Regulations, 2011 (S. I. 2011 No. 11) - (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments(a) the Commission is satisﬁ ed that the amendment is in conformity  with the Act; and(b) the prescribed fee in respect of theregistration of the amendment is paid.".3. Delete regulation 60(2)(b) and substitute the following:"(b) shall be submitted by the administrator of the pension plan to the Financial Services Commission.". 4.  Delete regulation 72(3) and substitute the following: "(3) Where the Financial ServicesCommission determines upon an examination of all pertinent factors and circumstances, including the protection of the interest of the existing members, that there is no reason that the transfer of the funds should not be approved, theCommission shall give its approval in writing to the applicant.".32

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Cont'd)First Schedule - (Cont'd)Column 1Enactments11. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Regulations, 2011 (S. I. 2011 No. 11) -  (Cont'd)Column 2Amendments5. Delete the Second Schedule and (a) rename the First Schedule as the Schedule; and(b) in regulations 3, 7, 20, 21D, 22, 23, 30 and 50, deletethe words "First Schedule" wherever they appear and substitute the word "Schedule".6. In the Schedule as renamed,(a) in Form 1, (i) under the heading "Instructions"(A) delete paragraph (a) and substitute the following:"(a) Applications are to be made  to the Financial Services  Commission."; and (B) delete paragraph (f) and substitute thefollowing:"(f) The duplicate will be  stamped by the Financial  Services Commission and returned to the applicant.";33

THE LAWS OF BARBADOSPrinted by the Government Printer, Bay Street, St. Michaelby the authority of the Government of BarbadosCONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS - (Concl'd)First Schedule - (Concl'd)Column 1Enactments11. Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Regulations, 2011 (S. I. No. 11 of 2011)  - (Concl'd)Column 2Amendments(ii) in Part I, under the heading "DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION", in paragraph 2(b), delete the words "of Pensions";  and(iii) in Part III, delete the word "Supervisor’s" and substitute the words "the Financial Services Commission’s";(b) in Form 2, delete the signatory and substitute "Financial Services Commission";(c) in Form 4, under the heading "Confirmation ofcompliance", in paragraph (d), delete from the word"with" to the word "Bridgetown" and substitute the words "with the Financial Services Commission.";(d) in Form 5, under the heading "General Instructions",under(i) the sub-heading "Section 1. – Name of PensionPlan" delete the words "of Pensions"; and(ii) the sub-heading "Section 12. – Normal and  Special Payments", in paragraph 12.2(b), delete the words "of Pensions"; and(e) in Form 11, in paragraph 10(1)(a), delete the words"of Pensions".34

 L.R.O. 1998SECOND SCHEDULE(Section 3)REPEALS 1. Insurance (Qualifying Insurance Company) Order, 1998 (S.I. No. 140 of 1998)2. Insurance (Qualifying Insurance) (Tax Concessions) Regulations, 1998 (S.I. No. 141 of 1998)3. Mutual Funds (Fees) Regulations, 2002 (S. I. No. 84 of 2000)35

 L.R.O. 1998THIRD SCHEDULE(Section 4) FeesPart IDivision IInitial and Annual Registration and Licensing FeesPayable for the Period 1st April, 2019 to 31st December, 2019Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence Fee1. Under the Co-operative Societies Act, Cap. 378A: Credit union:$500$5000.03% of total assets(subject to a minimumannual fee of $500 anda maximum annual fee of$500 000)Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whichever ishigher$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 for each cell$25 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate  of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with  sharedreinsurance$25 000 and in the case ofincorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional  $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of$25 000 for large complex arrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whichever ishigher2. Under the Insurance Act, Cap. 310:(a) Class 1 licensee (Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company)):36

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)(b) Class 2 licensee:(i) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that has assets of less than one billion dollars and holds a foreign currency permit:$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$30 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large,complex arrangements with shared reinsurance$30 000 and in the case of incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(ii) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that has assets equal to or greater than one billion dollars and holds a foreign currency permit:$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$100  000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large, complex arrangements with shared reinsurance$100 000 and in the case of incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)37

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)(iii) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that does not hold a foreign currency permit:$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$30 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large, complex arrangements with shared reinsurance0.03% of total assetssubject to a minimumannual fee of  $30 000 anda maximum annual feeof $500 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(iv) Insurance company that is winding up or dormant:-$3 000$3 000-(c) Class 3 licensee:(i) Association of underwriters:$1 000$20 000$20 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(ii) Individual broker or a company or ﬁ rm of brokers:$500$3 500$3 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)38

 L.R.O. 1998(iii) Individual agent or sub-agent or a company or ﬁ rm of agents or sub-agents:$300$2 500$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(iv) Salesman:$250$250$250Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherSchedule - (Cont'd)(v) Individual loss assessor, adjuster or insurance surveyor or a company or ﬁ rm of loss assessors, adjusters or insurance surveyors:$700$750$750Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(vi) Management company:$1 000$25 000$25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(vi) Holding company:$1 000$25 000$25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)39

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)3. Under the Occupational Pension Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B:Pension plan:$1 000$10 per member subjectto a minimum fee of $500$10 per member subjectto a minimum annual feeof $500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(c) Dealer:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(d) Trader:4. Under the Securities Act, Cap. 318A:(a) Broker:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(b) Investment adviser:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)40

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)$1 000$12 500$12 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(e) Securities company:-$2 5000.01% of total repurchaseagreement assets, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(i) Companies engaged in repurchase agreements:$1 000$12 500$12 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(f) Underwriter of securities:$1 000$50 0000.02% of value of transactionsin the previous year, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $50 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(g) Stock Exchange:$1 000$10 000$10 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(h) Securities Depository:Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)41

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)-$2 5000.01% of total assets undermanagement, subject to aminimum annual fee of$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(j) Companies engaged in portfolio management business:5. Under the Mutual Funds Act, Cap. 320B:(a) Mutual fund - general/exempt/limited:$1 000$10 0000.01% of total assetsunder management, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $7 500 and a maximumannual fee of $25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(b) Additional sub-fund or cell (in the case of segregated cell company or incorporated cell company):$1 000$10 000-Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(c) Mutual fund administration (general):$1 000$10 000$5 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(d) Mutual fund administration (restricted):$1 000$5 000$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart I - (Cont'd)Division I - (Concl'd)42

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)Part I - (Cont'd)Division 2General Fees Payable for the Period 1st April, 2019 to 31st December, 2019Matter1. Request for letter conﬁ rming status of registration or licence2. Application for certiﬁ ed copy of certiﬁ cate of registration or licence3. Request for amendment to certiﬁ cate or licence4. Issuance of amended certiﬁ cate or licence5. Replacement certiﬁ cate or licence6. Request for exemption from a requirement of the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment 7. Application for extension of deadline to ﬁ le returns, statements, reports, notices, forms or other documents (whether annual, quarterly, interim or otherwise) required to be ﬁ led or submitted within a speciﬁ ed period by the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment8. Late ﬁ ling of returns, statements, reports, notices, forms or other documents (whether annual, quarterly, interim or otherwise) required to be ﬁ led or submitted within a speciﬁ ed period by the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment9. Application for(a) cancellation or voluntary surrender of registration or licence(b) approval of dissolution or winding-up10. Inspection of register of registrants or licensees11. Copy of public information from, or extract of, register, per page12. Certiﬁ cation of copy of document ﬁ led with the Commission13. Request to re-ﬁ le annual or quarterly return or ﬁ lingFee$250$500$500$500$500$500$500$100 per business day,subject to a maximumfee of $5 000 for alldocuments within oneﬁ nancial year $250$25$5$10$50043

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)Part I - (Concl'd)Division 2 - (Concl'd)General Fees Payable for the Period 1st April, 2019 to 31st December, 2019 - (Concl'd)MatterUnder the Securities Act, Cap. 318A:14. Filing of registration statement (issuers)15. Filing of amended registration statement16. Filing of registration statement for additional securities17. Filing of prospectus18. Filing of supplementary or amended prospectus19. Filing of block distribution circular20. Filing of notice pursuant to section 69(1)(f)(i) of the Act21. Filing of report by person who sells a security pursuant to an exemption under section 69 of the Act22. Filing of statement pursuant to regulation 4(2) of the Companies (Take-Over Bid) Regulations, 2002 (S.I. 2002 No. 68)23. Filing of take-over bid circular24. Application for de-listing of securityUnder the Mutual Funds Act, Cap. 320B:25. Filing of amended oﬀ ering document (funds)Under the Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B:26. Registration of amendment to pension planFee$1 500$1 500$750$5 000$750$5 000$250$500$5 000$5 000$750$750$25044

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)1. Under the Co-operative Societies Act, Cap. 378A: Credit union:$500$7500.04% of total assets(subject to a minimumannual fee of $750 anda maximum annual fee of$500 000)Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whichever ishigher$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 for each cell$25 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate  of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with  sharedreinsurance$25 000 and in the case ofincorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional  $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of$25 000 for large complex arrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whichever ishigher2. Under the Insurance Act, Cap. 310:(a) Class 1 licensee (Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company)):Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II Division IInitial and Annual Registration and Licensing Fees Payable for the Period 1st January, 2020 to 31st December, 202045

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)(b) Class 2 licensee:(i) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that has assets of less than one billion dollars and holds a foreign currency permit:$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$40 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large,complex arrangements with shared reinsurance$40 000 and in the case of incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(ii) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that has assets equal to or greater than one billion dollars and holds a foreign currency permit:$1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$100  000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large, complex arrangements with shared reinsurance$100 000 and in the case of incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 for each cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large complexarrangements with sharedreinsuranceMinimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)46

 L.R.O. 1998(iii) Insurance company (including incorporated cell company or segregated cell company) that does not hold a foreign currency permit: $1 000 and in the caseof incorporated cellcompany or segregatedcell company, anadditional $500 foreach cell$40 000 and in the caseof incorporated cell companyor segregated cell company,an additional $2 500 foreach cell or a group rate of $25 000 for large, complex arrangements with shared reinsurance0.04% of total assetssubject to a minimumannual fee of  $40 000 anda maximum annual feeof $500 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(iv) Insurance company that is winding up or dormant:-$3 000$3 000(c) Class 3 licensee:(i) Association of underwriters:$1 000$20 000$20 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(ii) Individual broker or a company or ﬁ rm of brokers:$500$3 500$3 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherSchedule - (Cont'd)Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)-47

 L.R.O. 1998(iii) Individual agent or sub-agent or a company or ﬁ rm of agents or sub-agents:$300$2 500$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(iv) Salesman:$250$250$250Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(v) Individual loss assessor, adjuster or insurance surveyor or a company or ﬁ rm of loss assessors, adjusters or insurance surveyors:$700$750Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(vi) Management company:$1 000$25 000$25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(vi) Holding company:$1 000$25 000$25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherSchedule - (Cont'd)$750Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)48

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)3. Under the Occupational Pension Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B:Pension plan:$1 000$10 per member subjectto a minimum fee of $500$10 per member subjectto a minimum annual feeof $500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(c) Dealer:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(d) Trader:4. Under the Securities Act, Cap. 318A:(a) Broker:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(b) Investment adviser:$1 000$3 000$3 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)49

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)$1 000$12 500$12 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(e) Securities company:-$2 5000.01% of total repurchaseagreement assets, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(i) Companies engaged in repurchase agreements:$1 000$12 500$12 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher$1 000$50 0000.02% of value of transactionsin the previous year, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $50 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(g) Stock Exchange:$1 000$10 000$10 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(h) Securities Depository:(f) Underwriter of securities:Application forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Cont'd)50

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)-$2 5000.01% of total assets undermanagement, subject to aminimum annual fee of$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(j) Companies engaged in portfolio management business:5. Under the Mutual Funds Act, Cap. 320B:(a) Mutual fund - general/exempt/limited:$1 000$10 0000.01% of total assetsunder management, subjectto a minimum annual feeof $7 500 and a maximumannual fee of $25 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(b) Additional sub-fund or cell (in the case of segregated cell company or incorporated cell company):$1 000$10 000-Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(c) Mutual fund administration (general):$1 000$10 000$5 000Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higher(d) Mutual fund administration (restricted):$1 000$5 000$2 500Minimum annual feeor 10% of annual feepayable, whicheveris higherApplication forRegistration orLicenceInitial Registration or Licence  FeeAnnual Registrationor Licence FeeLate Payment of Annual Registration or Licence FeePart II - (Cont'd)Division I - (Concl'd)51

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Cont'd)Part II - (Cont'd)Division 2General Fees Payable for the Period 1st January, 2020 to 31st December, 2020Matter1. Request for letter conﬁ rming status of registration or licence2. Application for certiﬁ ed copy of certiﬁ cate of registration or licence3. Request for amendment to certiﬁ cate or licence4. Issuance of amended certiﬁ cate or licence5. Replacement certiﬁ cate or licence6. Request for exemption from a requirement of the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment7. Application for extension of deadline to ﬁ le returns, statements, reports, notices, forms or other documents (whether annual, quarterly, interim or otherwise) required to be ﬁ led or submitted within a speciﬁ ed period by the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment8. Late ﬁ ling of returns, statements, reports, notices, forms or other documents (whether annual, quarterly, interim or otherwise) required to be ﬁ led or submitted within a speciﬁ ed period by the Financial Services Commission Act, 2010 or a speciﬁ ed enactment9. Application for(a) cancellation or voluntary surrender of registration or licence(b) approval of dissolution or winding-up10. Inspection of register of registrants or licensees11. Copy of public information from, or extract of, register, per page12. Certiﬁ cation of copy of document ﬁ led with the Commission13. Request to re-ﬁ le annual or quarterly return or ﬁ lingFee$250$500$500$500$500$500$500$100 per business day,subject to a maximumfee of $5 000 for alldocuments within oneﬁ nancial year $250$25$5$10$50052

 L.R.O. 1998Schedule - (Concl'd)Part II - (Concl'd)Division 2 - (Concl'd)General Fees Payable for the Period 1st January, 2020 to 31st December, 2020 - (Concl'd)MatterUnder the Securities Act, Cap. 318A:14. Filing of registration statement (issuers)15. Filing of amended registration statement16. Filing of registration statement for additional securities17. Filing of prospectus18. Filing of supplementary or amended prospectus19. Filing of block distribution circular20. Filing of notice pursuant to section 69(1)(f)(i) of the Act21. Filing of report by person who sells a security pursuant to an exemption under section 69 of the Act22. Filing of statement pursuant to regulation 4(2) of the Companies (Take-Over Bid) Regulations, 2002 (S.I. 2002 No. 68)23. Filing of take-over bid circular24. Application for de-listing of securityUnder the Mutual Funds Act, Cap. 320B:25. Filing of amended oﬀ ering document (funds)Under the Occupational Pensions Beneﬁ ts Act, Cap. 350B:26. Registration of amendment to pension planFee$1 500$1 500$750$5 000$750$5 000$250$500$5 000$5 000$750$750$25053

Read three times and passed the House of Assembly this

day of

, 2022.

Speaker

Read three times and passed the Senate this

day of

, 2022.

President

