2023-05-17

OBJECTS AND REASONS

This  Bill  would  provide  for  the  capture,  collection,  treatment  and  reuse  of

wastewater for various purposes.

2

Arrangement of Sections

PART I

PRELIMINARY

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

Short title

Interpretation

Act binds State

Administration

PART II

WATER REUSE COMMITTEE

Establishment of Committee

Functions of Committee

Directions

PART III

WASTEWATER TREATMENT PERMIT

Permit required to produce reclaimed water for sale etc.

Application for permit

3

10.

Determination of application and issue of permit

11.

Display of permit

12.

Amendment of permit

PART IV

OPERATION OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND USE OF
RECLAIMED WATER

13.

Types of wastewater for use in wastewater treatment plant

14.

Use of reclaimed, non-potable water

15.

Prohibition on obtaining reclaimed water from person without permit

PART V

INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT

16.

Inspection

17.

Inspection before permit issued

18.

Re-inspection

19.

Report on inspection

20.

Warning

21.

Suspension or revocation of permit

4

PART VI

MISCELLANEOUS

22.

Experts

23.

Wastewater Register

24.

Offences

25.

Offence continuing after conviction

26.

Administrative penalties

27.

Amendment of Schedule

28.

Regulations

SCHEDULE

WATER REUSE COMMITTEE

BARBADOS

A Bill entitled

An  Act  to  provide  for  the  capture,  collection,  treatment  and  reuse  of

wastewater for various purposes.

ENACTED by the Parliament of Barbados as follows:

6

PART I

PRELIMINARY

Short title

1.

This Act may be cited as the Water Reuse Act, 2023.

Interpretation

2.

In this Act,

“agricultural wastewater” means

(a)

(b)

excess  water  that  runs  off  the  field  or  other  areas  during  surface
irrigation or watering, containing salts, nutrients, pesticides, herbicides
and other agricultural chemicals from the field or other areas;

wastewater  generated  from  the  handling  of  crops  and  from  food
processing  operations,  usually  with  a  high  concentration  of  organic
matter;

(c)

wastewater generated from caring for and slaughtering farm animals;

“approved form” means such form as the Minister may approve for the purposes

of this Act;

“black water” means wastewater that includes urine or human excreta with paper

or both;

“Committee” means the Water Reuse Committee established by section 5;

“domestic wastewater” means black water and grey water generated in a house

or other dwelling place;

“edible crops” means crops for human consumption;

“grey water” means wastewater generated from a kitchen, sink, shower, bathtub

7

or washbasin or from laundry in

(a)

(b)

(c)

a house or other dwelling place;

an office building; or

a hotel or similar building;

“industrial  wastewater”  means  wastewater,  containing  toxic  or  non-toxic

chemical compounds or biological matter, generated in

(a)

a manufacturing or industrial process as a means of cooling during the
process;

(b)

a production process, and later separated; or

(c)

office buildings, stores, shops and commercial centres;

“inspector”  means  the  Chief  Medical  Officer,  the  Director,  Environmental
Protection  Department  or  such  other  public  officer  as  the  Chief  Medical
Officer or the Director may authorise to conduct an inspection under this
Act;

“Minister” means the Minister with responsibility for Health;

“non-potable water” means water which is not of a standard to be used as potable

water;

“Permanent  Secretary”  means  the  Permanent  Secretary  of  the  Ministry  with

responsibility for Health;

“permit holder” means a person who holds a wastewater treatment permit;

“potable water” means water of a standard of treatment or quality which makes

it suitable for domestic use or human consumption;

“public officer” has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 of the Public Service

Act, Cap. 29;

8

“reclaimed  water”  means  water  collected  from  wastewater  and  treated  or
processed to meet specific water quality criteria for use by the public or in
a manner which may affect or impact the public;

“surface  runoff”  means  water,  primarily  from  precipitation,  running  over  the

landscape;

“wastewater” means

(a)

water that has been used or is a by-product of an activity, and contains
other matter, whether in a solid, liquid or gaseous state; and

(b)

surface runoff;

“wastewater treatment permit” means a permit described in section 8.

Act binds State

3.

This Act binds the State.

Administration

4.(1)

The Minister is responsible for the administration of this Act.

The  Minister  may  delegate  to  such  public  officer  as  he  considers
(2)
appropriate  any  function  related  to  the  administration  of  this  Act  except  his
functions under sections 27 and 28.

Without prejudice to the generality of subsections (1) and (2), the Minister
(3)
may  delegate  to  the  Permanent  Secretary  or  the  Chief  Medical  Officer,  his
functions  in  respect  of  wastewater  treatment  permits  including  the  issue,
registration, amendment, suspension and revocation of such permits.

Notwithstanding subsection (1), for the avoidance of doubt, the Director,

(4)
Environmental Protection Department shall be responsible for

(a)

the inspection of a wastewater treatment plant or premises on which
such  a  plant  is  to  be  situated  for  the  purpose  of  determining  its
suitability or continued suitability for producing reclaimed water for
sale or other supply; and

(b)

monitoring the impact of the operation of the plant on the environment.

9

PART II

WATER REUSE COMMITTEE

Establishment of Committee

5.(1)
Committee.

There  is  established  a  committee  to  be  known  as  the  Water  Reuse

The Schedule has effect with respect to the constitution of the Committee

(2)
and otherwise in relation to the Committee.

Functions of Committee

6.(1)

The functions of the Water Reuse Committee are to

(a)

(b)

(c)

consider and make recommendations to the Minister on any application
for a wastewater treatment permit;

determine the suitability of premises and structures on premises for a
wastewater treatment plant for the production of reclaimed water for
sale or other supply to persons;

monitor each permit holder to determine whether the permit holder is
in  compliance  with  this  Act  and  the  terms  and  conditions  of  his
permit;

(d)

inquire into any complaint made against a permit holder; and

(e)

make  recommendations,  where  appropriate,  on  the  suspension  or
revocation of any wastewater treatment permit.

(2)

The Committee may, for the purposes of subsection (1)

10

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

require a person to appear before the Committee to answer questions
or produce reports or other documents with respect to an application
for a wastewater treatment permit;

require  a  person  to  produce  a  report  or  other  document  where  it  is
reasonably believed to contain information relevant to an application,
and take and keep a copy of the report or other document;

make inquiries of a person, whether orally or in writing, with respect
to an application for a permit, premises subject to a permit or any other
matter related to this Act; and

require a person to appear before the Committee to answer questions
or  produce  documents  with  respect  to  a  complaint  made  against  a
permit holder.

Directions

The Minister may give directions of a general nature as to the policy
7.
to be followed in the administration of this Act, as appear to the Minister to be
necessary in the public interest; and every person exercising a function in the
administration of this Act shall comply with the directions.

PART III

WASTEWATER TREATMENT PERMIT

Permit required to produce reclaimed water for sale etc.

8.
without a permit issued to him by the Minister for the purpose.

No person shall sell or otherwise supply reclaimed water to another

11

Application for permit

9.(1)
prescribed fee, apply to the Minister for a wastewater treatment permit.

A  person  may,  in  the  approved  form  and  upon  payment  of  the

(2)
An applicant shall submit with his application such information as may be
required by the Minister to determine whether a permit should be issued to the
applicant.

Determination of application and issue of permit

Where the Minister receives an application for a wastewater treatment
10.(1)
permit,  the  Minister  shall  submit  the  application  to  the  Committee  for
consideration.

The  Committee  may,  upon  consideration  of  the  application,  any  report
(2)
submitted pursuant to section 19 on an inspection conducted in relation to the
application, and such other information as may be relevant to the application,
recommend to the Minister that

(a)

(b)

the wastewater treatment permit be issued;

consideration  of  the  application  be  suspended  until  any  matter
identified by the Committee as requiring rectification is rectified to the
satisfaction of the Committee; or

(c)

the application be refused.

(3)

Where the Committee recommends that

(a)

(b)

a wastewater treatment permit be issued to an applicant, the Minister
shall, in the approved form and upon payment of the prescribed fee,
issue the permit to the applicant;

consideration of the application be suspended, the Minister shall notify
the applicant in writing of the matter to be rectified for the applicant to
qualify for the issue of a permit; or

12

(c)

the application be refused, the Minister shall notify the applicant in
writing of the refusal and the reason for the refusal.

(4)

A wastewater treatment permit

(a)

shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister, on the
recommendation of the Committee, shall specify in the permit;

(b)

is not transferable;

(c)

(d)

is valid for 2 years; and

may be renewed on a further application under this section at least one
month prior to the expiration of the permit.

Display of permit

A permit holder may display a copy of his wastewater treatment permit
11.
in a conspicuous place on the premises where he operates his business, and shall,
where the permit is not displayed, ensure that the permit is available for inspection
upon request.

Amendment of permit

12.(1)

The Minister may amend a wastewater treatment permit to

(a)

reflect a change in the name, address or other particulars of a permit
holder; or

(b)

alter the terms and conditions of the permit.

Notwithstanding subsection (1)(b), the Minister shall not amend the terms
(2)
and conditions of a permit without giving the permit holder notice in writing of
the  intended  action  and  the  reason  for  it,  and  an  opportunity  to  make
representations in relation thereto.

13

PART IV

OPERATION OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND USE OF
RECLAIMED WATER

Types of wastewater for use in wastewater treatment plant

A permit holder may use the following types of wastewater to produce
13.
reclaimed water for sale or other supply, and use, in accordance with this Part:

(a)

(b)

(c)

agricultural wastewater;

industrial wastewater;

domestic wastewater;

(d)

surface runoff.

Use of reclaimed, non-potable water

14.

Reclaimed water that is non-potable may be used for

(a)

(b)

(c)

flushing water closets;

cleaning outdoor surfaces;

watering or irrigating

(i)

edible crops;

(ii)

household gardens;

(iii)

ornamental plants and trees; and

(iv)

green spaces;

(d)

cleaning animal pens, coops or holding areas;

(e)

flushing and cooling equipment;

(f)

filling surface ponds or lakes;

14

(g)

(h)

recharging the groundwater; and

other similar purposes.

Prohibition on obtaining reclaimed water from person without permit

15.(1)
No person shall purchase or otherwise obtain reclaimed water from a
wastewater treatment plant unless a wastewater treatment permit has been issued
in respect of the plant.

A  permit  holder  who  sells  or  otherwise  supplies  reclaimed  water  shall

(2)
maintain a register containing the following particulars:

(a)

(b)

the name, address and contact information of each person to whom the
reclaimed water is supplied;

the volume of reclaimed water supplied to the person and the purpose
for which the person intends to use the reclaimed water;

(c)

the date of the supply; and

(d)

such other information as may be required for the purposes of this Act.

PART V

INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT

Inspection

16.(1)
which such a plant is to be situated for the purpose of

An inspector may inspect a wastewater treatment plant or premises on

(a)

(b)

determining an application for a wastewater treatment permit;

assessing whether a matter required to be rectified by an applicant for
a permit, or by a permit holder, has been satisfactorily rectified;

15

(c)

assessing whether a permit holder is in compliance with this Act, the
terms and conditions of his permit or any request made, or direction
given, in writing under this Act; or

(d)

determining whether this Act or a term or condition of a permit has
been contravened,

or for any other purpose related to the administration of this Act.

(2)

An inspector may, for the purpose of an inspection under subsection (1)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

enter any premises or any private road connected with such premises,
and search the premises;

stop  and  search  any  motor  vehicle  on  the  premises  that  is  used  to
transport wastewater or reclaimed water;

conduct such surveys, examinations, investigations or other studies,
and take such samples, as may be necessary;

make such copies of documents, take such photographs, make such
videos  or  voice  recordings  or  use  such  equipment,  technology  or
facility  as  may  be  necessary  to  ensure  that  evidence  to  support  the
findings of the inspection is acquired;

require  the  production  of  any  report  or  other  document  which  is
reasonably believed to contain information relevant to the purpose of
the inspection;

make inquiries of any person, whether orally or in writing; and

exercise such other powers as may be necessary for the purposes of the
inspection.

An  inspector  shall,  prior  to  an  inspection,  identify  himself  by  the

(3)
production of the official form of identification issued to him.

An  inspector  may  be  accompanied  and  assisted  in  an  inspection  by  a
(4)
member  of  the  Barbados  Police  Service  or  an  expert  appointed  under section
22 or both.

16

Inspection before permit issued

Without prejudice to the generality of section 16, where an application
17.
for  a  wastewater  treatment  permit  is  made,  an  inspector  shall,  before  the
application  is  determined,  inspect  the  premises  and  any  wastewater  treatment
plant related to the application.

Re-inspection

18.
An inspector may, for the purposes of section 16, upon payment of
the prescribed fee by an applicant for a wastewater treatment permit or by a permit
holder, conduct a re-inspection of any premises or wastewater treatment plant.

Report on inspection

19.(1)
17 or 18, submit to the Minister a written report on the inspection.

An inspector shall, within 21 days of an inspection under section 16,

(2)

The report shall include

(a)

(b)

the date and time of the inspection;

where  the  inspection  relates  to  an  application  for  a  wastewater
treatment permit

(i)

(ii)

a recommendation with respect to the issue of the permit;

an assessment of whether the premises meet the requirements for
the issue of the permit; and

(iii)

where the premises are deficient,

(A)

the measures to be taken to rectify the deficiencies; and

(B)

the date of any proposed re-inspection to ascertain whether
the measures have been taken;

17

(c)

where the inspection relates to a wastewater treatment plant in respect
of which a permit has been issued,

(i)

a statement on whether the permit holder is in compliance with
this Act and the terms and conditions of the permit; and

(ii)

where the permit holder is not so in compliance

(A)

the provisions of this Act or the terms and conditions of the
permit which have been contravened;

(B)

the nature of the contravention;

(C)

(D)

(E)

the measures to be taken to rectify the contravention and the
date by which compliance is required;

the proposed date for re-inspection to reassess compliance;
and

a  recommendation,  where  appropriate,  as  to  whether  the
permit should be suspended or revoked; and

(d)

evidence in support of the findings of the inspection.

An applicant for a wastewater treatment permit or a permit holder, as the
(3)
case may be, shall be provided with a written summary of a report of an inspection
concerning him; and the summary shall include

the date and time of the inspection; and

the  information  set  out  in  subsection  (2)(b)(ii)  and  (iii)  or  (c),  as
appropriate.

(a)

(b)

Warning

20.(1)
Where an inspection reveals an area of concern which was the subject
of a prior request for rectification, the Minister may, on the recommendation of
the Committee, issue a written warning to the permit holder requiring that the
area of concern be rectified within a specified period.

(2)

The warning shall

18

(a)

(b)

(c)

(e)

state the area of concern;

give details of any prior written requests for rectification of the area of
concern including the number of times such requests were issued;

indicate the measures to be taken to rectify the area of concern and the
date by which compliance is required; and

advise that non-compliance may result in the suspension or revocation
of the permit.

The Minister may, subject to section 21, suspend or revoke a wastewater
(3)
treatment  permit  where  the  permit  holder  fails  to  comply  as  required  in  a
warning.

Suspension or revocation of permit

Subject  to  subsections  (2)  and  (3),  the  Minister  may,  on  the
21.(1)
recommendation of the Committee suspend or revoke a wastewater treatment
permit where

(a)

the permit holder

(i)

fails or refuses to comply with this Act, the terms and conditions
of his permit or any request made, or direction given, in writing
under this Act;

(ii)

is convicted of an offence under this Act; or

(iii)

has altered the operation of the wastewater treatment plant in such
a manner that he no longer qualifies for a wastewater treatment
permit in respect of the plant;

the  permit  holder  or  his  agent  or  employee  refuses  to  facilitate  an
inspection in accordance with this Act; or

there is a direct or indirect danger to the health or safety of persons
from use of reclaimed water from the wastewater treatment plant, and

(b)

(c)

19

the relevant authorities have given the necessary notifications under
the Health Services Act, Cap. 44, the Safety and Health at Work Act,
Cap. 356 or under any other relevant enactment.

The Minister shall not suspend or revoke a permit without giving the permit

(2)
holder

(a)

(b)

(c)

written notice of the intended suspension or revocation, and the reason
for it;

where appropriate, a further period during which the permit holder may
rectify any area of concern requiring rectification; and

10 days, from the date of the notice, to make representations as to why
the permit should not be suspended or revoked.

(3)

The Minister may suspend or revoke a permit where

(a)

(b)

an area of concern is not rectified by the permit holder by the end of
the period described in subsection (2)(b); or

a suitable explanation as to why the permit should not be suspended or
revoked is not received from the permit holder by the end of the period
described in subsection (2)(c).

(4)

Where the Minster suspends or revokes a permit, the Minister shall

(a)

(b)

give the permit holder written notice of the suspension or revocation;
and

cause  notice  of  the  suspension  or  revocation  and,  in  the  case  of  a
suspension,  of  the  period  of  the  suspension,  to  be  published  in  the
Official Gazette.

Notwithstanding  subsection  (2)(c),  where  subsection(1)(c)  applies,  the

(5)
Minister may suspend or revoke a permit with immediate effect.

20

PART VI

MISCELLANEOUS

Experts

A person with a particular expertise, other than a public officer, may,
22.
where appropriate, be appointed in writing to assist the Committee or an inspector
in the exercise of their functions under this Act including in

(a)

(b)

(c)

the conduct of an inspection;

the assessment of an application for a wastewater treatment permit; and

the  monitoring  of  a  permit  holder  to  determine  whether  he  is  in
compliance with this Act and the terms and conditions of his permit.

Wastewater Register

The  Minister  shall  cause  to  be  maintained,  for  the  use  of  the
23.(1)
Committee, a register to be known as the “Wastewater Register”, containing the
following particulars in respect of wastewater treatment permits:

(a)

(b)

the name, address and contact information of each permit holder;

where a permit holder is a company, the registration number, registered
business address and names of the directors of the company;

(c)

the number assigned to the permit;

(d)

the date of issue and of expiration of the permit;

(e)

any amendment of the permit;

(f)

any period of suspension of the permit; and

(g)

any revocation of the permit and the date of the revocation.

21

(2)
The Minister shall cause to be published in the Official Gazette, by the
31st of January each year, a list of the names and registered business addresses
of permit holders.

Offences

24.(1)

A person who

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

without  a  wastewater  treatment  permit,  sells  or  otherwise  supplies
reclaimed water to another;

makes  available  or  misrepresents  as  fit  for  human  consumption,
reclaimed water that is non-potable;

uses non-potable water as potable water in a manner that may endanger
public health or safety; or

uses black water to water, irrigate or treat edible crops which are to be
or are sold or otherwise supplied for human consumption,

is guilty of an offence and is liable, on summary conviction, to a fine of $500 000
or to imprisonment for 10 years or both.

(2)

A person who

(a)

(b)

obstructs an inspector or an expert appointed under section 22 in the
exercise of a function under this Act;

knowingly  gives  false  information  or  misleading  information  in
connection with an application for a wastewater treatment permit or an
inspection under this Act; or

(c)

contravenes section 15(2),

is guilty of an offence and is liable, on summary conviction, to a fine of $50 000
or to imprisonment for 5 years or both.

For the avoidance of doubt, a person whose wastewater treatment permit
(3)
is suspended or revoked shall not be regarded as being in breach of subsection

22

(1)  or  section  8  where  the  person  disposes  of  any  reclaimed  water  in  his
possession in accordance with the written directions or approval of the Minister.

Offence continuing after conviction

25.
Where a person is convicted of an offence under section 24 and the
contravention of this Act leading to his conviction continues after conviction, the
person shall, unless he has a reasonable excuse for the continued contravention,
be  guilty  of  a  further  offence  under  this  Act  and  may,  on  conviction,  be
penalized in accordance with that section.

Administrative penalties

26.(1)
a permit holder has

Where the Minister is satisfied, on the advice of the Committee, that

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

contravened a term or condition of his wastewater treatment permit;

failed to maintain adequate and accurate records on the operations of
the wastewater treatment plant;

failed  to  provide  reports  or  other  documents  or  information  where
required to do so under this Act; or

contravened any other provision of this Act or regulations made under
this Act,

and the contravention does not constitute an offence, the Minister may, subject
to  subsection  (4),  impose  on  the  permit  holder,  an  administrative  penalty  of
$5000.

Where a permit holder is required to take measures, by a specified date, to

(2)
rectify

(a)

(b)

an area of concern identified pursuant to an inspection; or

a contravention or failure described in subsection (1),

and  the  Minister  is  satisfied,  on  the  advice  of  the  Committee,  that  the  permit
holder has failed to take the measures, the Minister may impose on the permit

23

holder, in addition to the penalty specified in that subsection, an administrative
penalty of $500 for every day or part of a day that the permit holder fails to take
the measures.

(3)

The administrative penalty referred to in subsection (2)

(a)

may be imposed from the day following the date by which the permit
holder was required to have taken the measures; and

(b)

shall not be imposed in respect of a period of more than 30 days.

The Minister shall not impose an administrative penalty on a permit holder
(4)
under  subsection  (1)  without  first  giving  the  permit  holder  written  notice  of
imposition of the administrative penalty.

(5)

The notice referred to in subsection (4) shall

(a)

(b)

(c)

specify  the  nature  of  the  act  constituting  the  contravention  and  the
penalty to be paid;

require the permit holder to pay the penalty to the Minister within 10
days of the date of the notice; and

advise the permit holder that a further penalty of $500 for every day or
part of a day may be imposed for a period of 30 days where the permit
holder is required to take measures, by a specified date, to rectify a
matter  described  in  subsection  (2)(a)  or  (b)  but  fails  to  take  the
measures.

A person who is in receipt of an administrative penalty notice shall pay the
(6)
amount of the penalty to the Minister and comply with any additional requirement
contained in the notice on or before the date specified in the notice.

(7)

An administrative penalty may be recovered as a debt due to the State.

Amendment of Schedule

27.

The Minister may by Order amend the Schedule.

24

Regulations

28.(1)

The Minister may make regulations for

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the standards of treatment to be applied in relation to reclaimed water
for sale or other supply to persons;

standards for the treatment of wastewater to be used in the operation
of  a  wastewater  treatment  plant  otherwise  than  directly  to  obtain
reclaimed water for sale or other supply;

the  mechanisms  and  standards  to  be  applied  in  relation  to  the
management of reclaimed water;

the tests to be conducted by a permit holder, and the form and procedure
for the submission of test results and related information;

(e)

safe operating procedures;

(f)

(g)

(h)

the forms and types of training and certification which a permit holder
must ensure among employees;

the fees to be paid under this Act; and

generally giving effect to this Act.

Where regulations made under this Act create an offence, the regulations
(2)
may provide for a penalty of a fine of $50 000 or imprisonment for 5 years or
both, on summary conviction in respect of the offence.

25

SCHEDULE

WATER REUSE COMMITTEE

(Sections 5 and 27)

Composition

1.
officio:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Water Reuse Committee shall comprise the following persons, ex

the Permanent Secretary or his nominee;

the Chief Medical Officer or his nominee;

the Director, Environmental Protection Department or his nominee;

(d)

the Solicitor General or his nominee;

(e)

the Director, Coastal Zone Management Unit or his nominee;

(f)

(g)

(h)

the Chief Agricultural Officer or his nominee;

the Director, Analytical Services or his nominee; and

the Director of Planning and Development or his nominee.

Chairman and Deputy Chairman

2.(1)

The Permanent Secretary shall be Chairman of the Committee.

The Chief Medical Officer shall be Deputy Chairman of the Committee

(2)
and shall, in the absence of the Chairman, function as Chairman.

Secretary

3.
The  Permanent  Secretary  shall  assign  a  public  officer  from  the
Ministry with responsibility for Health to be secretary to the Committee to assist
the Committee with such clerical and secretarial duties as may be required.

26

Quorum

4.

Five members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.

Meetings

5.(1)
necessary or expedient for the transaction of its business.

The  Committee  shall  meet  at  such  times  and  places  as  may  be

Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the Chairman may at any time summon

(2)
a meeting of the Committee.

The secretary to the Committee shall ensure that minutes are kept for each

(3)
meeting and confirmed

(a)

(b)

by electronic means prior to the next meeting; or

orally or in writing at the next meeting.

Decisions of the Committee shall be by a majority of votes and, where the

(4)
voting is equal, the person presiding at a meeting shall have a casting vote.

The validity of the proceedings of the Committee shall not be affected by

(5)
a vacancy amongst the members of the Committee.

Procedure

6.
and proceedings.

Subject to this Act, the Committee may regulate its own procedure

