2024-07-30

Bill as amended

OBJECTS AND REASONS

This  Bill  would  revise  the  law  relating  to  the  provision  of  bail  in  or  in

connection with criminal proceedings and would provide for related matters.

2

Arrangement of Sections

PART I

PRELIMINARY

PART II

RIGHT TO BAIL

Short title

Interpretation

Application of Act

Right to bail

Police bail

Circumstances in which bail may be refused

Court to obtain evidence in bail proceedings

PART III

BAIL PROCEDURE

Record of decision as to bail

Reasons relating to bail

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

3

10.

Right to apply to the High Court for bail

11.

Bail in the case of persons charged with an offence set out in Schedule

12.

Powers of the High Court in relation to bail

PART IV

CONDITIONS OF BAIL

13.

General provisions relating to bail

14.

Exceptions to section 13 conditions

15.

Bail with sureties

16.

Failure by defendant to observe condition of bail

17.

Revocation of bail

18.

Forfeiture of security

PART V

MISCELLANEOUS

19.

Absconding

20.

Arrest for absconding etc.

21.

Bail of children

22.

Appeal to superior court with regard to bail

23.

Prosecution right of appeal

4

24.

Payment of bail money by third person

25.

Rules

26.

Savings

27.

Transitional

28.

Repeal of Cap. 122A

SCHEDULE

OFFENCES

BARBADOS

A Bill entitled

An Act to revise the law relating to the provision of bail in or in connection

with criminal proceedings and to provide for related matters.

ENACTED by the Parliament of Barbados in accordance with the provisions

of section 49 of the Constitution as follows:

6

PART I

PRELIMINARY

Short title

1.

This Act may be cited as the Bail Act, 2024.

Interpretation

2.(1)

In this Act,

“bail” means

(a)

(b)

bail grantable in or in connection with proceedings for an offence to a
person who is accused or convicted of the offence;

bail grantable in connection with an offence to a person who is under
arrest  for  the  offence  or  for  whose  arrest  for  the  offence  a  warrant,
endorsed for bail is issued;

(c)

bail grantable under the law, including common law, for the time being
in force;

“child” means a person under the age of 18 years;

“conviction” includes

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

a finding of guilt;

a finding that a person is not guilty by reason of insanity;

a  finding  that  a  person  is  guilty  but  is  suffering  from  diminished
responsibility;

a  finding  under  section  57(1)  of  the  Magistrate's  Courts  Act,
Cap. 116A that the person in question did the act or made the omission
charged; and

7

(e)

a  conviction  of  an  offence  for  which  an  order  is  made  placing  the
offender on probation or discharging him absolutely or conditionally,

and “convicted” shall be construed accordingly;

“court” means a Judge of the High Court or a magistrate and, in the case of a
specified court, includes a Judge or a magistrate having powers to act in
connection with proceedings before that court;

“defendant” means a person charged with or convicted of an offence and includes

a person who is a party to an appeal;

“lower court”means

(a)

(b)

the magistrate’s court where there is an appeal from that court to the
High Court; and

the magistrate’s court or the High Court where there is an appeal from
any such court to the Court of Appeal;

“Magistrate's  Courts  Rules”  means  rules  made  under  section  268  of  the

Magistrate's Courts Act, Cap. 116A;

“offence” includes an alleged offence;

“surrender to custody” means

(a)

in relation to a person released on bail, surrendering into the custody
of the court or of the police officer, according to the requirements of
the grant of bail, at the time and place for the time being appointed for
the person to do so; or

(b)

in relation to an enactment which refers to the person bailed appearing
before the court, the surrendering of that person before the court;

“vary” in relation to bail, means imposing further conditions after bail is granted,

or varying or rescinding conditions.

Where  an  enactment,  whenever  passed,  that  relates  to  bail  in  criminal
(2)
proceedings refers to the person being bailed appearing before a court, it is to be

8

construed,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  as  referring  to  the  person
surrendering into the custody of the court.

Application of Act

3.

This Act applies

(a)

(b)

to an offence committed in Barbados or elsewhere; and

to an extraditable offence under the Extradition Act, Cap. 189.

PART II

RIGHT TO BAIL

Right to bail

4.(1)

Subject to this Act, a defendant shall be entitled to bail.

(2)

Where bail is granted, the conditions of bail shall be reasonable.

Police bail

5.
Where a person is taken into custody for an offence without a warrant,
a police officer not below the rank of inspector or a police officer in charge of
the police station to which the person is brought shall, if it is not practicable to
bring  the  person  before  a  magistrate  within  24  hours  after  being  taken  into
custody, inquire into the case, and,

(a)

(b)

if the offence is not one punishable with imprisonment, grant the person
bail; and

if the offence is one punishable with imprisonment, may, unless the
offence appears to be a serious one, grant the person bail

with or without sureties subject to a duty to appear before a magistrate at such
time and place as the officer appoints.

9

Circumstances in which bail may be refused

6.(1)
Where  a  defendant  is  accused  or  convicted  of  an  offence  that  is
punishable by imprisonment, the court may refuse an application for bail if the
interests of justice so require.

In the interests of justice, the court shall refuse an application for bail where

(2)
one or more of the following grounds are established:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

where there is the likelihood that the defendant, if granted bail, will
endanger  the  safety  of  the  public  or  any  particular  person  or  will
commit an offence referred to in Part I of the Schedule;

where there is the likelihood that the defendant, if granted bail, will
attempt to evade trial;

where there is the likelihood that the defendant, if granted bail, will
attempt to influence or intimidate witnesses or to conceal or destroy
evidence;

where there is the likelihood that the defendant, if granted bail, will
undermine or jeopardize the objectives or the proper functioning of the
criminal justice system, including the bail system; or

where  in  exceptional  circumstances  there  is  the  likelihood  that  the
release of the defendant will not be in the interest of public order or
public safety or public security.

In  considering  whether  the  ground  in  subsection  (2)(a)  has  been
(3)
established,  the  court  may,  where  applicable,  take  into  account  the  following
factors:

(a)

(b)

the degree of violence towards others implicit in the charge against the
defendant;

any  threat  of  violence  which  the  defendant  may  have  made  to  any
person;

10

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

any resentment the defendant is alleged to harbour against any person;

any disposition to violence on the part of the defendant, as is evident
from the defendant’s past conduct;

any disposition of the defendant to commit an offence referred to in
Part I of the Schedule, as is evident from the defendant’s past conduct;

the prevalence of a particular type of offence;

any  evidence  that  the  defendant  previously  committed  an  offence
referred to in Part I of the Schedule while on bail; or

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

In  considering  whether  the  ground  in  subsection  (2)(b)  has  been
(4)
established,  the  court  may,  where  applicable,  take  into  account  the  following
factors:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the assets held by the defendant and where such assets are held;

the means of, and travel documents held by, the defendant, which may
enable the defendant to leave the country;

the  extent,  if  any,  to  which  the  defendant  can  afford  to  forfeit  the
amount of bail which may be set;

the question whether the extradition of the defendant could readily be
effected  should  the  defendant  flee  the  jurisdiction  in  an  attempt  to
evade trial;

the nature and gravity of the charge on which the defendant is to be
tried;

whether the strength of the case against the defendant may induce the
defendant to attempt to evade trial;

the nature and gravity of the punishment which is likely to be imposed
should the defendant be convicted of the charges;

11

(h)

the binding effect and enforceability of bail conditions which may be
imposed and the ease with which such conditions could be breached;
or

(i)

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

In  considering  whether  the  ground  in  subsection  (2)(c)  has  been
(5)
established,  the  court  may,  where  applicable,  take  into  account  the  following
factors:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

the fact that the defendant is familiar with the identity of witnesses and
with the evidence which they may give at the trial;

whether  the  witnesses  have  already  made  statements  and  agreed  to
testify;

whether  the  investigation  against  the  defendant  has  already  been
completed;

the relationship of the defendant with the various witnesses and the
extent to which they could be influenced or intimidated;

how  effective  and  enforceable  bail  conditions  prohibiting
communication between the defendant and witnesses are likely to be;

whether the defendant has access to evidentiary material which is to
be presented at the trial;

the  ease  with  which  evidentiary  material  could  be  concealed  or
destroyed; or

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

12

(6)
In  considering  whether  the  ground  in  subsection  (2)(d)  has  been
established,  the  court  may,  where  applicable,  take  into  account  the  following
factors:

(a)

the  fact  that  the  defendant,  knowing  it  to  be  false,  supplied  false
information at the time of arrest or during the bail proceedings;

(b)

whether the defendant is in custody on another charge;

(c)

any previous failure on the part of the defendant to comply with bail
conditions or any indication that the defendant will not comply with
any bail conditions; or

(d)

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

In  considering  whether  the  ground  in  subsection  (2)(e)  has  been

(7)
established, the court may, where applicable, take into account the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

whether the nature of the offence or the circumstances under which the
offence was committed is likely to induce a sense of shock or outrage
in the community;

whether the shock or outrage of the community might lead to public
disorder if the defendant is released;

whether  the  safety  of  the  defendant  might  be  jeopardized  by  the
defendant’s release;

whether the sense of peace and security among members of the public
will be undermined or jeopardized by the release of the defendant;

whether the release of the defendant will undermine or jeopardize the
public confidence in the criminal justice system; or

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

In considering subsection (2) the court shall decide the matter by weighing
(8)
the interests of justice against the right of the defendant to personal freedom and

13

in  particular  the  prejudice  that  the  defendant  is  likely  to  suffer  if  detained  in
custody, taking into account, where applicable, the following factors:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the period for which the defendant has already been in custody since
arrest;

the probable period of detention until the disposal or conclusion of the
trial if the defendant is not released on bail;

the reason for any delay in the disposal or conclusion of the trial and
any fault on the part of the defendant with regard to such delay;

any  financial  loss  which  the  defendant  may  suffer  owing  to  the
defendant’s detention;

any impediment to the preparation of the defendant's defence or any
delay in obtaining legal representation which may be brought about by
the detention of the defendant;

the state of health of the defendant; or

any other factor which in the opinion of the court should be taken into
account.

Where the prosecution does not oppose the granting of bail, the court has
(9)
the  duty,  imposed  by  subsection  (8),  to  weigh  the  personal  interests  of  the
defendant against the interests of justice.

(10)
Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, where a defendant is charged
with an offence referred to in Part I of the Schedule, the court shall order that the
defendant be detained in custody until the defendant is dealt with in accordance
with law, unless the defendant, having been given a reasonable opportunity to do
so,  adduces  evidence  which  satisfies  the  court  that  exceptional  circumstances
exist which in the interests of justice permit the defendant’s release.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, where a defendant is charged
(11)
with an offence referred to in Part II of the Schedule, the court shall order that
the  defendant  be  detained  in  custody  until  the  defendant  is  dealt  with  in
accordance  with  law,  unless  the  defendant,  having  been  given  a  reasonable

14

opportunity to do so, adduces evidence which satisfies the court that the interests
of justice permit the defendant’s release.

The court may make the release of a defendant on bail subject to conditions

(12)
which, in the court's opinion, are in the interests of justice.

In bail proceedings the defendant, or the attorney-at-law for the defendant,

(13)
shall inform the court whether

(a)

(b)

the defendant has previously been convicted of any offence and there
are  any  charges  pending  against  the  defendant  and  whether  the
defendant has been released on bail in respect of those charges; and

where  the  attorney-at-law  on  behalf  of  the  defendant  submits  the
information referred to in paragraph (a), whether in writing or orally,
the  defendant  shall  be  required  by  the  court  to  declare  whether  the
defendant confirms such information or not.

The record of bail proceedings, except the information in subsection (13)
(14)
(a), shall form part of the record of the trial of the defendant following upon such
bail proceedings.

Where the defendant elects to testify during the course of bail proceedings
(15)
the court shall inform the defendant that anything the defendant says, may be
used  at  the  defendant’s  trial  and  such  evidence  becomes  admissible  in  any
subsequent proceedings.

(16)

A defendant who wilfully

(a)

(b)

fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of subsection (13)(a); or

furnishes  the  court  with  false  information  required  in  terms  of
subsection (13)(b),

shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine of $5 000
or to imprisonment for 2 years.

The court may grant a defendant bail subject to conditions, which, in the

(17)
court's opinion, are in the interests of justice.

15

Court to obtain evidence in bail proceedings

7.

In bail proceedings the court

(a)

(b)

(c)

may, in respect of matters that are not in dispute between the defence
and the prosecution, acquire in an informal manner the information that
is needed for its decision or order regarding bail;

may, in respect of matters that are in dispute between the defence and
the prosecution, require of the prosecution or the defence, as the case
may be, that evidence be adduced; and

shall, where the prosecution does not oppose bail in respect of matters
referred to in Part II of the Schedule, require of the prosecution to place
on record the reasons for not opposing the bail application.

PART III

BAIL PROCEDURE

Record of decision as to bail

8.(1)

Subject to subsection (2), where

(a)

(b)

(c)

a court or police officer grants bail to a defendant;

a court denies bail to a defendant;

a court or police officer appoints a time or place, or a court or police
officer appoints a different time or place, for a person granted bail to
surrender to custody;

(d)

a court varies any conditions of bail or imposes conditions in respect
of bail,

that court or police officer shall make a record of the decision in the prescribed
manner containing the prescribed particulars and, shall if requested to do so by

16

the defendant, give the defendant a copy of the record of the decision as soon as
practicable after the record is made.

Where bail is granted by endorsing a warrant of arrest for bail, the police
(2)
officer who releases on bail the person arrested shall make the record required
by subsection (1) instead of the Judge or magistrate who issued the warrant.

(3)

In this section "prescribed" means, in relation to the decision of

(a)

(b)

a court, prescribed by rules made under this Act;

a police officer, prescribed by the direction of the Commissioner of
Police.

Reasons relating to bail

A  magistrate's  court  shall,  in  order  to  enable  the  defendant  or  the
9.(1)
police, as the case may be, to make an application respecting bail to the High
Court, give reasons for

(a)

(b)

(c)

denying bail;

imposing or varying conditions relating to the grant of bail;

granting bail over an objection to bail by the prosecution where the
defendant  is  charged  with  an  offence  punishable  by  a  term  of
imprisonment of 5 years or more.

A court referred to in subsection (1) shall give reasons for its decision, shall
(2)
include a note of those reasons in the record of the decision, and shall give a copy
of that note to the police and the defendant.

Right to apply to the High Court for bail

10.(1)
magistrate shall,

Where  a  magistrate  denies  bail  to  an  unrepresented  defendant,  the

(a)

(b)

if committing the defendant for trial to the High Court;

if issuing a certificate under subsection (2); or

(c)

in any other case,

17

inform the defendant of the right to apply to the High Court to be granted bail.

(2)
Where  in  criminal  proceedings,  after  hearing  full  argument  on  an
application  for  bail  from  the  defendant,  a  magistrate's  court  remands  the
defendant in custody under section 18, 32, 45 or 57 of the Magistrate's Courts
Act, Cap. 116A, the court shall issue a certificate in the prescribed form that it
has heard full argument on the application before it refused the application, if

(a)

(b)

the court has not previously heard such argument on that application
from the defendant; or

the court has previously heard such argument on the application from
the  defendant  but  it  is  satisfied  that  there  has  been  a  change  in  the
defendant’s circumstances or that new considerations have been placed
before it.

Where the court issues a certificate under subsection (2)(b), it shall state
(3)
in  the  certificate  the  nature  of  the  change  of  the  circumstances  or  the  new
considerations which caused it to hear a further fully argued bail application.

Where the court issues a certificate under subsection (2), it shall cause the

(4)
defendant to be given a copy of the certificate.

(5)

In this section "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.

Bail in the case of persons charged with an offence set out in Schedule

11.(1)
An application for bail by a person who is charged with an offence
mentioned in Part I or Part II of the Schedule shall be heard by the Chief Justice
or a Judge of the High Court assigned by the Chief Justice.

An  application  for  bail  by  a  person  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  for  an
(2)
offence referred to in that subsection shall not be heard by the High Court unless

(a)

a period of 72 hours has expired after the application for bail is made
to the Court; and

18

(b)

the Court is satisfied that notice of the application was served on the
prosecution.

(3)
Where bail is granted by the High Court to a person in the circumstances
mentioned in subsection (2), the Chief Justice or Judge, as the case may be, shall,
at the time of making the decision,

(a)

(b)

give reasons in writing for the decision; and

give a copy of the reasons for the decision to the defendant and the
prosecution.

Where bail is granted by the High Court to a defendant under this section,
(4)
there shall be a right of appeal by the prosecution to the Court of Appeal against
the decision of the Court.

An appeal to the Court of Appeal under subsection (4) shall be heard by
(5)
the Chief Justice or by a Justice of Appeal assigned by the Chief Justice as is
appropriate in the particular circumstances and the decision of such judge shall
be final.

Powers of the High Court in relation to bail

12.(1)
admission of persons to bail,

Notwithstanding any power of the High Court to admit or direct the

(a)

(b)

the High Court may grant bail where a person has been committed in
custody to the High Court for trial or sentence; or

the High Court may grant bail or vary the conditions of bail where the
magistrate's court denies bail or imposes conditions in granting bail.

Where the High Court grants bail to a defendant under subsection (1), it
(2)
may direct the defendant to appear at a time and place which the magistrate's
court could have directed, and the recognizance of any surety shall be conditioned
accordingly.

Where the High Court denies bail to a defendant under subsection (1), and
(3)
the defendant is not then in custody, the court shall issue a warrant for the arrest

19

of the defendant, and the defendant shall be brought before a magistrate's court
and shall be remanded in custody.

PART IV

CONDITIONS OF BAIL

General provisions relating to bail

13.(1)

A defendant granted bail shall surrender to custody.

A defendant may be required to give security for surrender to custody, or
(2)
the  security  may  be  given  on  the  defendant’s  behalf,  if  it  appears  that  the
defendant is unlikely to remain in Barbados until the time appointed for surrender
to custody.

(3)

A court may require any defendant applying for bail to

(a)

provide,  as  a  condition  for  bail  before  release,  a  surety  to  secure
surrender to custody;

(b)

surrender the defendant’s passport to the court;

(c)

inform the court if the defendant intends to leave the jurisdiction;

(d)

report to any police station at specified times.

A defendant may be ordered by a court to comply with any requirement

(4)
that is in the opinion of the court necessary to secure that the defendant

(a)

(b)

(c)

surrenders to custody;

does not commit an offence while on bail;

does not interfere with witnesses or otherwise obstruct the course of
justice whether in relation to himself or any other person; or

20

(d)

is  available  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  inquiries  or  a  report  of  any
medical examination to be made to assist the court in dealing with him
for the offence.

(5)
If a parent or guardian of a child consents to be a surety for the child for
the purposes of this subsection, the parent or guardian may be required to ensure
that the child complies with any requirement imposed on the child by virtue of
subsection (4), but

(a)

(b)

no requirement shall be imposed on the parent or the guardian of a child
by virtue of this subsection where it appears that the child will attain
the age of 18 years before the time to be appointed for the child to
surrender to custody; and

the parent or guardian shall not be required to secure compliance with
any requirement to which the parent’s or guardian’s consent does not
extend and shall not, in respect of those requirements to which consent
does extend, be bound in a sum greater than $500.

Any court before which a charge is pending in respect of which bail has
(6)
been granted, whether subject to conditions or unconditionally, may, at any stage,
whether the bail was granted by that court or any other court, on application by
the prosecutor, or by or on behalf of the defendant, add any further condition of
bail

(a)

with regard to the reporting in person by the defendant at any specified
time and place to any specified person or authority;

(b)

with regard to any place to which the defendant is forbidden to go;

(c)

(d)

with regard to the prohibition of or control over communication by the
defendant with witnesses for the prosecution;

with regard to the place at which any document may be served on him
under this Act;

21

(e)

which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  court,  will  ensure  that  the  proper
administration of justice is not placed in jeopardy by the release of the
defendant;

(f)

which provides that the defendant shall be placed under the supervision
of a probation officer.

This  section  is  subject  to  section  57(2)  of  the  Magistrate's  Courts  Act,

(7)
Cap. 116A.

Exceptions to section 13 conditions

14.
section 13 shall not be imposed on him

Where  the  defendant  is  granted  bail,  the  conditions  mentioned  in

(a)

(b)

on an application for bail; or

on an application to vary the conditions of bail

unless the court considers that it is necessary to do so for the purpose of preventing
the  occurrence  of  any  of  the  events  mentioned  in  section  13(4)  or  to  enable
inquiries or a report to be made into the defendant's physical or mental condition.

Bail with sureties

15.(1)
he provides a surety.

This section applies where a person is granted bail on condition that

In  considering  the  suitability  of  a  proposed  surety,  the  court  shall  have

(2)
regard amongst other things to

(a)

(b)

(c)

the surety's financial resources;

the surety's character and any previous convictions of the surety; and

the surety's proximity, whether in point of kinship, place of residence
or otherwise to the defendant.

22

(3)

Where a court grants bail to a defendant under subsection (1), but

(a)

is unable to release the defendant because no surety or suitable surety
is available, the court may fix the amount in which the surety is to be
bound; and subsections (4), (5) and (6) shall apply for the purpose of
enabling the recognizance of the surety to be entered into subsequently;
or

(b)

has committed the defendant to custody in default of finding a surety,
the court may, on application by or on behalf of the person committed
and after hearing fresh evidence,

(i)

reduce the amount in which it is proposed that any surety should
be bound;

(ii)

dispense with any sureties; or

(iii)

otherwise deal with the case as the court thinks fit.

A recognizance of a surety under subsection (2) may be entered into before
(4)
such persons or descriptions of persons as the court may specify or, if it makes
no such order, before any of the following persons:

(a)

where the decision was taken by a magistrate, before the magistrate or
a police officer who is either of the rank of inspector or above or is in
charge of a police station or if the Magistrate's Courts Rules so provide,
by a person of such other description as is specified in the rules;

(b)

where the decision is taken by the High Court, before the Registrar or
such other officer as may be specified by rules made under this Act.

(5)

Rules made under this Act may prescribe

(a)

(b)

(c)

the manner in which a recognizance is to be entered into;

the persons by whom a recognizance may be enforced; and

the manner in which the recognizance may be enforced.

23

(6)
Where a surety seeks to enter into a recognizance before any person in
accordance  with  subsection  (4)  but  that  person  declines  to  take  the  surety's
recognizance because the person is not satisfied of the surety's suitability, the
surety may apply to

(a)

the court that fixed the amount of the recognizance in which the surety
was to be bound; or

(b)

a magistrate for the district in which the surety resides

for that court or magistrate to take the recognizance; and that court or magistrate
shall, if satisfied of the surety's suitability, take the recognizance.

Where, in pursuance of subsection (4) or (5), a recognizance is entered into
(7)
otherwise than before the court that fixed the amount of the recognizance, the
same consequences shall follow as if it had been entered into before that court.

Failure by defendant to observe condition of bail

If a defendant is released on bail subject to any condition imposed
16.(1)
under section 6 or 13, including any amendment of a condition of bail, and the
prosecutor applies to the court before which the charge with regard to which the
defendant has been released on bail is pending, to lead evidence to prove that the
defendant  has  failed  to  comply  with  such  condition,  the  court  shall,  if  the
defendant is present and denies that the defendant failed to comply with such
condition or that failure to comply with such condition was due to fault on the
defendant’s  part,  proceed  to  hear  such  evidence  as  the  prosecutor  and  the
defendant may place before it.

If the defendant is not present when the prosecutor applies to the court
(2)
under subsection (1), the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of the defendant,
and  shall,  when  the  defendant  appears  before  the  court  and  denies  that  the
defendant failed to comply with the condition in question or that failure to comply
with such condition was due to fault on the defendant’s part, proceed to hear such
evidence as the prosecutor and the defendant may place before it.

24

(3)
If  the  defendant  admits  that  the  defendant  failed  to  comply  with  the
condition in question or if the court finds that the defendant failed to comply with
such condition, the court may, if it finds that the failure by the defendant was due
to  fault  on  the  defendant’s  part,  revoke  the  bail  and  declare  the  bail  money
forfeited to the State.

(4)

The proceedings and the evidence under this section shall be recorded.

Revocation of bail

Any court before which a charge is pending in respect of which bail
17.
has  been  granted  may,  whether  the  defendant  has  been  released  or  not,  upon
information on oath that

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the defendant is about to evade justice or is about to abscond in order
to evade justice;

the defendant has interfered or threatened or attempted to interfere with
witnesses;

the defendant has defeated or attempted to defeat the ends of justice;

the defendant poses a threat to the safety of the public or of a particular
person;

the  defendant  has  not  disclosed  or  has  not  correctly  disclosed  all
previous  convictions  in  the  bail  proceedings  or  where  a  true  list  of
previous convictions has come to light after release on bail;

further  evidence  has  since  become  available  or  factors  have  arisen,
including the fact that the defendant has furnished false information in
the bail proceedings, which might have affected the decision to grant
bail; or

(g)

it is in the interests of justice to do so,

issue a warrant for the arrest of the defendant and make such order as it may deem
proper,  including  an  order  that  the  bail  be  revoked  and  that  the  defendant  be
committed to prison until the conclusion of the relevant criminal proceedings.

25

Forfeiture of security

18.(1)
Where a person has given security in pursuance of section 13(2) and
a court is satisfied that the person failed to surrender to custody, then, unless it
appears that the person had reasonable cause for the failure or there are other
mitigating circumstances, the court may order the forfeiture of the security.

Where the court orders the forfeiture of a security under subsection (1), the
(2)
court may declare that the forfeiture extends to such amount less than the full
value of the security as it thinks fit to order.

An order under subsection (1) shall, unless previously revoked, take effect

(3)
at the end of 21 days beginning with the day on which it is made.

A court which has ordered the forfeiture of a security under subsection (1)

(4)
may, if satisfied on an application made by the defendant or a surety that

(a)

the defendant did after all have reasonable cause for failure to surrender
to custody; or

(b)

there are other mitigating circumstances which should be considered,

remit the forfeiture or declare that the forfeiture extends to such amount less than
the full value of the security as it thinks fit to order.

An application under subsection (4) may be made before or after the order
(5)
for  forfeiture  has  taken  effect,  but  shall  not  be  entertained  unless  the  court  is
satisfied  that  the  prosecution  was  given  reasonable  notice  of  the  applicant's
intention to make it.

A security that has been ordered to be forfeited by a court under subsection

(6)
(1) shall, to the extent of the forfeiture,

(a)

(b)

if it consists of money, be accounted for and paid in the same manner
as a fine imposed by that court would be; or

if it does not consist of money, be enforced by the magistrate's court
in the manner specified in the order.

26

(7)
Where an order is made under subsection (4) after an order for forfeiture
of the security in question has taken effect, any money forfeited shall be paid
over to the person who gave the security.

PART V

MISCELLANEOUS

Absconding

19.(1)
person

(a)

(b)

A person who has been released on bail is guilty of an offence if the

fails without reasonable cause to surrender to custody; or

having  reasonable  cause  for  not  surrendering  to  custody,  fails  to
surrender to custody at the appointed place as soon after the appointed
time as is reasonably practicable.

It  shall  be  for  the  defendant  to  adduce  evidence  that  the  defendant  had

(2)
reasonable cause for failing to surrender to custody.

A failure to give to a person granted bail a copy of the decision shall not

(3)
constitute a reasonable cause for the person’s failure to surrender to custody.

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1), is liable on summary

(4)
conviction to a fine of $5 000 or to imprisonment for 2 years or to both.

In  any  proceedings  for  an  offence  under  subsection  (1),  a  document
(5)
purporting to be a copy of the part of the prescribed record that relates to the time
and place appointed for the person specified in the record to surrender to custody
and to be duly certified to be a true copy of that part of the record shall be evidence
of the time and place appointed for that person to surrender to custody.

(6)

For the purposes of subsection (5),

27

(a)

(b)

the "prescribed record" means the record of the decision of the court
or police officer made in pursuance of section 8;

the copy of the prescribed record is duly certified if it is certified by
the appropriate officer of the court or, as the case may be, by the police
officer  who  took  the  decision  or  a  police  officer  designated  for  the
purpose by the officer in charge of the police station from which the
person to whom the record relates was released;

(c)

the "appropriate officer" means the clerk to the magistrate’s court or
such  other  officer  as  may  be  authorized  by  the  magistrate  for  the
purpose.

Arrest for absconding etc.

Where a person who has been released on bail and is under a duty to
20.(1)
surrender to custody of a court fails to surrender to custody at the time and place
appointed to do so, the court may issue a warrant for the person’s arrest.

(2)
Where a person who has been released on bail fails to attend court at any
time after the person has surrendered to the custody of the court and before the
court is ready to begin or to resume the hearing of the proceedings, the court may
issue a warrant for the person’s arrest; but no warrant shall be issued under this
subsection if that person is absent in accordance with leave given by the court.

A person who has been released on bail and is under a duty to surrender
(3)
into the custody of the court may be arrested without warrant by a police officer

(a)

(b)

if  the  police  officer  has  reasonable  grounds  for  believing  that  that
person is not likely to surrender to custody;

if  the  police  officer  has  reasonable  grounds  for  believing  that  that
person  is  likely  to  break  any  of  the  conditions  of  his  bail,  or  has
reasonable grounds for suspecting that that person has broken any of
those conditions;

28

(c)

in a case where that person was released on bail with a surety, if a surety
notifies the police in writing that the person is unlikely to surrender to
custody and that for that reason the surety wishes to be relieved of the
obligations as a surety; or

(d)

if new evidence justifying a further arrest has come to light since the
person’s release.

(4)

Where in pursuance of subsection (3)

(a)

(b)

a person is arrested, that person shall be brought as soon as practicable
and in any event within 24 hours after arrest, before a magistrate for
the district in which the person is arrested;

a person is arrested within 24 hours of the time appointed for the person
to  surrender  to  custody,  the  person  shall  be  brought  without  delay
before the court at which the person is to surrender to custody.

In reckoning any period of 24 hours for the purposes of subsection (4), no

(5)
account shall be taken of Christmas Day, Good Friday or any Sunday.

A magistrate before whom a person is brought under subsection (4) may,
(6)
subject to subsection (7), if of the opinion that that person is not likely to surrender
to custody or has broken or is likely to break any condition of bail,

(a)

(b)

(c)

remand the person in custody;

commit the person to custody; or

grant the person bail subject to the same or to different conditions,

but if not of that opinion shall grant the person bail subject to the same conditions,
if any, as were originally imposed.

(7)
Where  the  person  brought  before  the  magistrate  is  a  child  and  the
magistrate does not grant bail, subsection (6) shall have effect subject to section
21.

29

Bail of children

21.(1)
Where the child referred to in section 20(7) is apprehended with or
without warrant and cannot be brought forthwith before a court sitting to hear
charges against children, any police officer not below the rank of sergeant or the
officer in charge of the police station to whom the child is brought shall enquire
into the case and may in any case, and

(a)

(b)

(c)

unless the charge is one for an offence set out in the Schedule;

unless it is necessary in the interest of the child to remove the child
from association with any undesirable person; or

unless  the  officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  the  release  of  the  child
would not be in the interests of justice,

shall release such person on a recognizance, with or without sureties for such
amount as will, in the opinion of the officer, secure the attendance of the child
upon the hearing of the charge.

Where a child, having been apprehended, is not released under subsection
(2)
(1), the police officer shall cause the child to be detained at a Reformatory and
Industrial  School  until  the  child  can  be  brought  before  a  court  sitting  to  hear
charges against children, unless the officer certifies

(a)

(b)

(c)

that it is impracticable to do so;

that the child is of so unruly a character that the child cannot safely be
detained; or

that by reason of the child’s state of health or mental condition it is
inadvisable to detain the child,

and the certificate shall be produced to the court before which he is brought.

Appeal to superior court with regard to bail

22.(1)
A defendant who is aggrieved by the refusal of a lower court to admit
the defendant to bail or by the imposition by such court of a condition of bail,

30

including  a  condition  relating  to  the  amount  of  bail,  or  an  amendment  of  a
condition of bail, may appeal against such refusal or imposition to a superior
court.

An appeal from a lower court under subsection (1) lies to the High Court
(2)
or the Court of Appeal, as the case requires, and in the case of the Court of Appeal
may be heard by a single judge that court.

A decision under subsection (2) by the High Court or the Court of Appeal

(3)
as the case may be shall be final.

An appeal shall not lie in respect of new facts which arise or are discovered
(4)
after the decision against which the appeal is brought, unless such new facts are
first placed before the lower court and such court gives a decision against the
defendant on such new facts.

The defendant shall serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the Director of
(5)
Public Prosecutions and on the magistrate, or on the Registrar in the case of the
High  Court,  and  the  magistrate  or  judge,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  forthwith
furnish the reasons for the decision to the Registrar.

The judge hearing the appeal shall not set aside the decision against which
(6)
the appeal is brought, unless such judge is satisfied that the decision was wrong,
in which case the judge shall give the decision which in the judge’s opinion the
lower court should have given.

Prosecution right of appeal

23.(1)
In proceedings before a magistrate’s court in which a person who is
charged with an offence punishable by a term of imprisonment of 5 years or more
is granted bail, there shall be a right of appeal by the prosecution to a Judge of
the  High  Court  against  the  decision  of  the  magistrate’s  court  to  grant  bail,  if
objection to the granting of bail is made by the prosecution before the magistrate’s
court grants such bail.

31

Where  the  prosecution  wishes  to  exercise  the  right  of  appeal  set  out  in

(2)
subsection (1),

(a)

(b)

oral  notice  of  appeal  shall  be  given  to  the  magistrate’s  court  at  the
conclusion of the proceedings in which such bail has been granted and
before the release from custody of the person concerned; and

written notice of appeal shall thereafter be served on the magistrate’s
court and the person concerned within one hour of the conclusion of
such proceedings.

Upon receipt from the prosecution of oral notice of appeal from its decision
(3)
to grant bail the magistrate’s court shall remand in custody the person concerned,
pending the hearing of such appeal.

The hearing of an appeal under subsection (1) against a decision of the
(4)
magistrate’s court to grant bail shall be commenced within 5 days, excluding
court holidays and weekends, from the date on which oral notice of appeal is
given.

At the hearing of any appeal by the prosecution under this section such

(5)
appeal shall be by way of rehearing.

Payment of bail money by third person

24.(1)
Nothing in this Act or any other enactment shall prevent the payment
by  any  person,  other  than  the  defendant,  of  bail  money  for  the  benefit  of  the
defendant.

Bail money, whether deposited by the defendant or any other person for
(2)
the benefit of the defendant, shall, notwithstanding that such bail money or any
part thereof may have been ceded to any person, be refunded only to the defendant
or the depositor, as the case may be.

No person shall be allowed to deposit for the benefit of a defendant any
(3)
bail money in terms of this section if the official concerned has reason to believe
that such person, at any time before or after depositing such bail money, has been
indemnified or will be indemnified by any person in any manner against loss of

32

such bail money or that he has received or will receive any financial benefit in
connection with the deposit of such bail money.

Rules

25.

(a)

(b)

Savings

The Rules Committee may make rules

generally for giving effect to this Act; and

for prescribing anything that is authorized or required to be prescribed
by this Act.

The  Bail  Rules,  2001  (S.I.  2001  No.  23)  made  under  the  Bail  Act,
26.(1)
Cap. 122A, shall continue in force as if made under this Act in so far as they are
consistent with this Act and shall have effect as if made under this Act, until
revoked.

(2)

Nothing in this Act affects bail granted under the Bail Act, Cap. 122A.

Transitional

27.
commencement of this Act shall continue to be dealt with under that Act.

Proceedings  begun  under  the  Bail  Act,  Cap.  122A  before  the

Repeal of Cap. 122A

28.

The Bail Act, Cap. 122A is repealed.

33

SCHEDULE

OFFENCES

PART I

(Sections 6, 7 and 11)

Offences for which bail may be granted if exceptional circumstances are shown

1.
the Person Act, Cap. 141

Murder committed in circumstances set out in section 2(2) of the Offences against

2.

3.

Treason

High treason

4.
imprisonment for 10 years or more.

An  offence  under  the  Firearms  Act,  Cap.  179,  which  is  punishable  with

PART II

Offences for which bail may be granted in the interest of justice

1.
official duties.

Murder  committed  in  circumstances  connected  with  the  discharge  of  a  person’s

2.
defendant did not commit the offence with which he is charged.

Where the court is of the view that the strength of the evidence suggests that the

3.
able to rely on the defence of self defence.

Where the court is satisfied on the evidence presented that the defendant would be

34

Read three times and passed the House of Assembly this

day of

, 2024.

Speaker

Read three times and passed the Senate this

day of

, 2024.

President

